risk factors 10 organization from time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses, and realign contracts, programs or business areas among and within our operating segments that possess similar customers, expertise, and capabilities. internal realignments are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance development and delivery of products and services. the operating results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes made through december 31, 2009. -1- table of contents northrop grumman corporation in january 2009, we streamlined our organizational structure by reducing the number of operating segments from seven to five. the five segments are aerospace systems, which combines the former integrated systems and space technology segments; electronic systems; information systems, which combines the former information technology and mission systems segments; shipbuilding; and technical services. creation of the aerospace systems and information systems segments was intended to strengthen our alignment with customers, improve our ability to execute on programs and win new business, and enhance cost competitiveness. during the first quarter of 2009, we realigned certain logistics, services, and technical support programs and transferred assets from the information systems and electronic systems segments to the technical services segment. this realignment was intended to strengthen our core capability in aircraft and electronics maintenance, repair and overhaul, life cycle optimization, and training and simulation services. during the first quarter of 2009, we transferred certain optics and laser programs from the information systems segment to the aerospace systems segment. the prior year sales and segment operating income were not reclassified to reflect this business transfer as the operating results of this business were not considered material. in december 2009, we sold our advisory services division (asd), for $1.65 billion in cash to an investor group led by general atlantic llc and affiliates of kohlberg kravis roberts co. l.p., and recognized a gain of $15 million, net of taxes. asd was a business unit comprised of the assets and liabilities of tasc, inc., its wholly-owned subsidiary tasc services corporation, and certain contracts carved out from other businesses also in our information systems segment that provide systems engineering technical assistance (seta) and other analysis and advisory services. in january 2008, we realigned the newport news and ship systems businesses into a single operating segment called northrop grumman shipbuilding. previously, these businesses were separate operating segments which were aggregated into a single reporting segment for financial reporting purposes. in addition, we transferred certain electronic systems businesses to the former mission systems segment during the first quarter of 2008. during the second quarter of 2008, we transferred certain programs and assets from the missiles business in the information systems segment to the aerospace systems segment. this transfer allowed information systems to focus on the rapidly growing command, control, communications, computing, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (c4isr) business. the missiles business became an integrated element of our aerospace business growth strategy. aerospace systems aerospace systems, headquartered in redondo beach, california, is a premier developer, integrator, producer and supporter of manned and unmanned aircraft, spacecraft, high-energy laser systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems critical to maintaining the nation security and leadership in technology. aerospace systems customers, primarily government agencies, use these systems in many different mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; communications; battle management; strike operations; electronic warfare; missile defense; earth observation; space science; and space exploration. the segment consists of four business areas: strike surveillance systems, space systems, battle management engagement systems, and advanced programs technology. strike surveillance systems designs, develops, manufactures and integrates tactical and long-range strike aircraft systems, unmanned systems, and missile systems. these include the rq-4 global hawk unmanned reconnaissance system, b-2 stealth bomber, f-35 lightning ii joint strike fighter, f/a-18 super hornet strike fighter, minuteman iii intercontinental ballistic missile (icbm), mq-8b fire scout unmanned aircraft system, multi-platform radar technology insertion program (mp-rtip), and aerial targets. space systems designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems and electronic and communications payloads. major programs include the national polar-orbiting operational environmental -2- table of contents northrop grumman corporation satellite system (npoess), the james webb space telescope (jwst), advanced extremely high frequency (aehf) payload, space tracking and surveillance system (stss) and many restricted programs. battle management engagement systems designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne early warning, surveillance, battlefield management, and electronic warfare systems. key programs include the e-2 hawkeye, joint surveillance target attack radar system (joint stars), broad area maritime surveillance (bams) unmanned aircraft system, the ea-6b prowler, and its next generation platform, the ea-18g growler. advanced programs technology creates advanced technologies and concepts to satisfy existing and emerging customer needs. it matures these technologies and concepts to create and capture new programs that other aerospace systems business areas can execute. existing programs include the navy unmanned combat air system (n-ucas), the airborne laser (abl), and other directed energy and advanced concepts programs. electronic systems electronic systems, headquartered in linthicum, maryland, is a leading designer, developer, manufacturer and integrator of a variety of advanced electronic and maritime systems for national security and select non-defense applications. electronic systems provides systems to u.s. and international customers for such applications as airborne surveillance, aircraft fire control, precision targeting, electronic warfare, automatic test equipment, inertial navigation, integrated avionics, space sensing, intelligence processing, air and missile defense, communications, mail processing, biochemical detection, ship bridge control and radar, ship machinery controls, and shipboard components. the segment is composed of seven business areas: aerospace systems; defensive systems; government systems; land forces; naval marine systems; navigation systems; and space intelligence, surveillance reconnaissance (isr) systems. aerospace systems provides sensors, sensor processing, integrated sensor suites, and radar countermeasure systems for military surveillance and precision-strike; missile tracking and warning; and radio frequency electronic warfare. fire control radars include systems for the f-16, f-22a, f-35, and b-1b. navigation radars include commercial and military systems for transport and cargo aircraft. surveillance products include the airborne warning and control system radar, the multi-role electronically scanned array (mesa) radar, the mp-rtip, the ship-board cobra judy replacement radar, and multiple payloads on the p-8a. radio frequency electronic warfare products include radar warning receivers, self-protection jammers, and integrated electronic warfare systems for aircraft such as the ea-6b, ea-18, f-16, and f-15. defensive systems provides systems that support combat aviation by protecting aircraft and helicopters from attack, by providing capabilities for precise targeting and tactical surveillance, by improving mission availability through automated test systems, and by improving mission skills through advanced simulation systems. a wide variety of fixed wing and helicopter protection systems include threat detection and laser-based countermeasures systems to defeat ground-launched infrared-guided missiles. defensive systems countermeasures systems are currently installed on over 40 types of aircraft, many of which are conducting combat operations in iraq and afghanistan. targeting systems utilize lasers for target designation and precision weapon delivery, image processing, and target acquisition, identification, and tracking. the litening targeting pod system is combat-proven on the av-8b, a-10a/c, b-52h, f-15e, f-16, and f/a-18a/c/d. test systems include systems to test electronic components of combat aircraft on the flight line and in repair facilities. defensive systems also provides advanced simulators for use on test ranges and training facilities to emulate threats of potential adversaries. customers include the u.s. government and a wide variety of international allies. government systems provides products and services to meet the needs of governments for improvements in the effectiveness of their civil and military infrastructure and of their combat and counter-terrorism operations. this includes systems and system integration of products and services for postal automation, for the detection and alert of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosive material, and for homeland defense, communications, and enterprise management. key programs include: flats sequencing system; international sorting centers; -3- table of contents northrop grumman corporation u.s. postal service bio-detection systems; and national level command and control, integrated air and missile defense and homeland defense systems for international customers. land forces provides a full range of warfighting system solutions for the digital battlefield, including fire control systems for airborne and tracked vehicles, air and ground sensors to detect enemy movement, tactical range finding and precise laser designation, and systems that detect and defend against enemy fire. these solutions include laser designators and rangefinders, ground-based tactical radars for warning of missile and artillery attack, situational awareness sensors, unattended sensor systems, ground vehicle communication networks, precision guided munitions and compact lightweight synthetic aperture radar /ground moving target indicator (sar/gmti) radars for unmanned/rotary wing aircraft. sensor technologies provided include radio frequency, infrared, and electro-optical. principal programs include the longbow weapons system for the apache attack helicopter, the lightweight laser designator rangefinder, the vehicular intercommunication system extended (vis-x), the firefinder counter-battery integrated radar system, the ground/air task oriented radar system (g/ator), and the lightweight starlite sar/gmti for unmanned air vehicles. naval marine systems provides major subsystems and subsystem integration for sensors, sensor processing, missile launching, ship controls and power generation. it provides systems to military surface and subsurface platforms, and bridge and machinery control systems for commercial maritime applications. principal programs include: radars for navigation; radars for gun fire control and cruise missile defense; bridge management and control systems; power generation systems for aircraft carriers; power, propulsion, and launch systems for virginia- class submarines; launch systems for trident submarines; and unmanned semi-autonomous naval systems. navigation systems provides advanced navigation, avionics systems, and command and control centers for military and commercial applications. its products are used in military air, land, sea, and space systems as well as commercial space and aircraft in both u.s. and international markets. its subsidiaries, northrop grumman litef (freiburg, germany) and northrop grumman italia (pomezia, italy), are leading european inertial sensors and systems suppliers. key navigation systems programs and applications include: integrated avionics for the u.s. marine corps attack and utility helicopters and u.s. navy e-2 aircraft; military navigation and positioning systems for the f-16 fighter, f-22a fighter/attack aircraft, eurofighter, and u.s. navy mh-60 helicopter; navigation systems for commercial aircraft; navigation systems for military and civil space satellites and deep space exploration. navigation systems also develops and produces fiber-optic acoustic systems for underwater surveillance for virginia -class submarines and the an/tyq-23 multi-service mobile tactical command centers for the u.s. marine corps and u.s. air force. space isr systems provides space-based sensor and exploitation systems for civil, military, and u.s. intelligence community customers, as well as ground/surface based command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (c4isr) solutions to process, exploit, and disseminate multi-sensor data. capabilities include space-based payloads, radar, overhead non-imaging infrared sensors, electro-optic multi/hyper-spectral sensors, passive microwave sounders, mission processing solutions, and service-oriented open architecture c4isr systems. the current portfolio of programs includes the spaced-based infrared system as the lead for the payload and mission processing systems, the distributed common ground system-army as the system integrator, as well as a variety of civil space and restricted programs. information systems information systems, headquartered in reston, virginia, is a leading global provider of advanced solutions for the dod, national intelligence, federal civilian, state and local agencies, and commercial customers. products and services are focused on the fields of command, control, communications, computers and intelligence; air and missile defense; airborne reconnaissance; intelligence processing; decision support systems; cybersecurity; information technology; and systems engineering and systems integration. the segment consists of three business areas: defense systems; intelligence systems; and civil systems. -4- table of contents northrop grumman corporation defense systems is a major end-to-end provider of net-enabled battle management c4isr systems, decision superiority, and mission-enabling solutions and services in support of the national defense and security of our nation and its allies. the division is a prime developer and integrator of many of dod programs-of-record, particularly for command and control and communications for the air force, the army, the navy, and joint forces. major product and services include enterprise infrastructure and applications, mission systems integration, military communications networks, bmc2 and decision support systems, global and operational c2, ground and maritime combat systems, air and missile defense, combat support solutions and services, defense logistics automation, and force and critical infrastructure protection. systems are installed in operational and command centers world-wide and across all dod services and joint command. intelligence systems is focused on the delivery of world-class systems and services to the u.s. intelligence community. major offerings include studies analysis, systems development, enterprise it, prime systems integration, products, sustainment, and operations and maintenance. customer focus addresses several mission areas including airborne isr, geospatial intelligence, ground systems, integrated intelligence and dynamic cyber defense. sustaining and growing the business in today market mandates sharing meaningful information across agencies through development of cost effective systems that are responsive to mutual requirements. intelligence systems is also creating new responsive capabilities leveraging existing systems to provide solutions to customer needs through labs and integration centers. civil systems provides specialized information systems and services in support of critical government civil missions, such as homeland security, public health, cyber security, air traffic management and public safety. primary customers are federal civilian agencies, with state and local customers and the u.s. postal service also being served. civil systems develops and implements solutions that combine a deep understanding of civil government domains with core expertise in prime systems integration, enterprise applications development, and high value it services including cyber security, identity management and advanced network communications. shipbuilding shipbuilding, headquartered in newport news, virginia, is the nation sole industrial designer, builder, and refueler of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and one of only two companies capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy. shipbuilding is also one of the nation leading full service systems providers for the design, engineering, construction, and life cycle support of major programs for the surface ships of the u.s. navy, u.s. coast guard, and international navies. the segment includes the following areas of business: aircraft carriers; expeditionary warfare; surface combatants; submarines; coast guard coastal defense; fleet support; and services other. aircraft carriers the u.s. navy newest carrier and the last of the nimitz class, the uss george h. w. bush , was delivered in may 2009. design work on the next generation carrier, the ford class has been underway for over eight years. the ford class incorporates transformational technologies including an enhanced flight deck with increased sortie rates, improved weapons movement, a redesigned island, a new nuclear power plant design, flexibility to incorporate future technologies, and reduced manning. in 2008, shipbuilding was awarded a $5.1 billion contract for construction of the first ship of the class, the gerald r. ford , which is scheduled for delivery in 2015. the segment also provides ongoing maintenance for the u.s. navy aircraft carrier fleet through overhaul, refueling, and repair work. in 2009, the completion of the refueling and complex overhaul of the uss carl vinson was followed by the arrival of the uss theodore roosevelt, which is expected to be redelivered to the u.s. navy following its refueling in early 2013. shipbuilding is also currently performing a multi-year maintenance service of the first nuclear-powered carrier, uss enterprise , with redelivery anticipated in early 2010. expeditionary warfare shipbuilding is the sole provider of amphibious assault ships for the u.s. navy. in 2009, construction of the wasp class multipurpose amphibious assault ship was concluded with the delivery of lhd 8. construction of the san antonio class continues, with five ships delivered from 2005 to 2009 and four currently in construction. in 2007, shipbuilding was awarded the construction contract for lha 6, the first in a new class -5- table of contents northrop grumman corporation of enhanced amphibious assault ships. the first ship of the america class ships is currently under construction and is expected to join the fleet in 2013. surface combatants shipbuilding designs and constructs arleigh burke class aegis guided missile destroyers, as well as major components for the zumwalt class, a land attack destroyer. shipbuilding has delivered 26 arleigh burke destroyers to the u.s. navy, currently has two under construction, and was awarded a long lead time material contract for a restart of the arleigh burke class in december 2009. shipbuilding participation in the zumwalt program includes detailed design and construction of the ships integrated composite deckhouses, as well as portions of the ships peripheral vertical launch systems. the u.s. navy expects to build three zumwalt class destroyers. submarines northrop grumman is one of only two u.s. companies capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines. in february 1997, the company and electric boat, a wholly owned subsidiary of general dynamics corporation, reached an agreement to cooperatively build virginia class nuclear attack submarines. the initial four submarines in the class were delivered in 2004, 2006, and 2008. shipbuilding and electric boat were awarded a construction contract in august 2003 for the second block of six virginia class submarines, the first two of which were delivered in 2008 and 2009, respectively. construction on the remaining four submarines is underway, with the last scheduled to be delivered in 2014. in december 2008, shipbuilding and electric boat were awarded a construction contract for the third block of eight virginia class submarines. the multi-year contract allows shipbuilding and its teammate to proceed with the construction of one submarine per year in 2009 and 2010, and two submarines per year from 2011 to 2013. the eighth submarine to be procured under this contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019. coast guard coastal defense shipbuilding is a joint venture partner along with lockheed martin for the coast guard deepwater modernization program. shipbuilding has design and production responsibility for surface ships. in 2006, the shipbuilding/lockheed martin joint venture was awarded a 43-month contract extension for the deepwater program. the first national security cutter (nsc), uscgc berthoff , was delivered to the coast guard in 2008 followed by the waesche (nsc2) in 2009. currently, the stratton (nsc3) is in construction, and long lead procurement is underway for nsc4. fleet support fleet support provides after-market services, including on-going maintenance and repair work, for a wide array of naval and commercial vessels. the segment has ship repair facilities in the u.s. navy largest homeports of norfolk, virginia, and san diego, california. services other shipbuilding provides various services to commercial nuclear and non-nuclear industrial customers. in january 2008, savannah river nuclear solutions, a joint venture among shipbuilding, fluor corporation, and honeywell, was awarded a contract for site management and operations of the u.s. department of energy savannah river site in aiken, south carolina. in october 2008, shipbuilding announced the formation of a joint venture with areva np to build a new manufacturing and engineering facility in newport news, virginia, to help supply the growing american nuclear energy sector. technical services technical services, headquartered in herndon, virginia, is a leading provider of logistics, infrastructure, and sustainment support, while also providing a wide array of technical services including training and simulation. the segment consists of three areas of business: systems support; training simulation; and life cycle optimization engineering. systems support provides infrastructure and base operations management, including base support and civil engineering work, military aerial and ground range operations, support functions which include space launch services, construction, combat vehicle maintenance, protective and emergency services, and range-sensor-instrumentation operations. primary customers include the department of energy, the dod, the department of homeland security, and the u.s. intelligence community, in both domestic and international locations. -6- table of contents northrop grumman corporation training and simulation provides realistic and comprehensive training to senior military leaders and peacekeeping forces, designs and develops future conflict training scenarios, and provides u.s. warfighters and international allies with live, virtual, and constructive training programs. this business area also offers diverse training applications ranging from battle command to professional military education. primary customers include the dod, department of state and department of homeland security. life cycle optimization and engineering provides complete life cycle product support and weapons system sustainment. this business area is focused on providing performance based logistical support to the warfighter including supply chain management services, warehousing and inventory transportation, field services and mobilization, sustaining engineering, maintenance, repair and overhaul supplies, and on-going weapon maintenance and technical assistance. the group specializes in performing contractor logistics support of both original equipment manufacturer (oem) and third party aviation platforms involving maintenance and modification, and rebuilding essential parts and assemblies. primary customers include the dod as well as international military and commercial customers. corporate our principal executive offices are located at 1840 century park east, los angeles, california 90067. our telephone number is (310) 553-6262 and our home page on the internet is www.northropgrumman.com. references to our website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. see properties in part i, item 2. summary segment financial data for a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see segment operating results in part ii, item 7, and note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. customers and revenue concentration our primary customer is the u.s. government. u.s. government revenue (which includes foreign military sales) accounted for approximately 91 percent of total revenues in 2009, 2008, and 2007. no single product or service accounted for more than 10 percent of total revenue during any period presented. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. patents the following table summarizes the number of patents we own or have pending as of december 31, 2009: owned pending total u.s. patents 3,144 405 3,549 foreign patents 2,188 556 2,744 total 5,332 961 6,293 patents developed while under contract with the u.s. government may be subject to use by the u.s. government. we license intellectual property to, and from, third parties. we believe our ability to conduct operations would not be materially affected by the loss of any particular intellectual property right. seasonality no material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. our revenue recognition timing is based on several factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments- revenue recognition in part ii, item 7. -7- table of contents northrop grumman corporation backlog at december 31, 2009, total backlog was $69.2 billion compared with $76.4 billion at the end of 2008. approximately 37 percent of backlog at december 31, 2009, is expected to be converted into sales in 2010. total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded indefinite delivery indefinite quantity (idiq) orders. for multi-year services contracts with non-federal government customers having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. for backlog by segment see backlog in part ii, item 7. raw materials the most significant raw material we require is steel, used primarily for shipbuilding. we have mitigated supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with a number of steel suppliers. in addition, we have mitigated price risk related to steel purchases through certain contractual arrangements with the u.s. government. while we have generally been able to obtain key raw materials required in our production processes in a timely manner, a significant delay in supply deliveries could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see risk factors in part i, item 1a and overview- outlook in part ii, item 7. government regulation our businesses are affected by numerous laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate our contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. if any of our government contracts were to be terminated for convenience, we are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred and profit on those costs. termination resulting from our default could require us to pay for re-procurement costs in excess of the original contract price, net of the value of work accepted from the original contract. the u.s. government could also hold us liable for damages resulting from the default. in the event that appropriations for one of our programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. certain programs with the u.s. government that are prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in detail are referred to as restricted in this form 10-k. the consolidated financial statements and financial information in this form 10-k reflect the operating results of restricted programs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (gaap). see risk factors in part i, item 1a. research and development our research and development activities primarily include independent research and development (ir d) efforts related to government programs. ir d expenses are included in general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to u.s. government contracts. ir d expenses totaled $610 million, $564 million, and $522 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. we charge expenses for research and development sponsored by the customer directly to the related contracts. employee relations we maintain good relations with our 120,700 employees, of which approximately 20 percent are covered by 32 collective bargaining agreements. we re-negotiated 17 of our collective bargaining agreements in 2009. these negotiations had no material adverse effect on our results of operations. for risks associated with collective bargaining agreements, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. -8- table of contents northrop grumman corporation environmental matters our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. we provide for the estimated cost to complete environmental remediation where we determine it is probable that we will incur such costs in the future to address environmental impacts at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a potentially responsible party (prp) by the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) or similarly designated by other environmental agencies. these estimates may change given the inherent difficulty in estimating environmental cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws, regulations, and their interpretations. we assess the potential impact on our financial statements by estimating the possible remediation costs that we could reasonably incur on a site-by-site basis. these estimates consider our environmental engineers professional judgment and, when necessary, we consult with outside environmental specialists. in most instances, we can only estimate a range of reasonably possible costs. we accrue our best estimate when determinable or the minimum amount when no single amount is more probable. we record accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we record insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable and we do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters in our environmental remediation accrual. we estimate that at december 31, 2009, the range of reasonably possible future costs for environmental remediation sites is $239 million to $483 million, of which we accrued $115 million in other current liabilities and $168 million in other long term liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position. we record environmental accruals on an undiscounted basis. at sites involving multiple parties, we provide environmental accruals based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. we expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in currently operating facilities. we may have to incur costs in addition to those already estimated and accrued if other prps do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we have made the investments we believe necessary to comply with environmental laws. although we cannot predict whether information gained as projects progress will materially affect the estimated accrued liability, we do not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives. we recently established a goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions during the next five years. to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations and to meet this goal, we expect to incur capital and operating costs, but at this time we do not expect that such costs will have a material adverse effect upon our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. competitive conditions we compete with many companies in the u.s. defense industry for a number of programs, both large and small, but primarily with lockheed martin corporation, the boeing company, raytheon company, general dynamics corporation, l-3 communications corporation, saic, and bae systems. intense competition and long operating cycles are both key characteristics of our business and the defense industry. it is common in this industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, turn out to be a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. -9- table of contents northrop grumman corporation our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our ability to develop and market our products and services, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. we must continue to maintain sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic components, and major subassemblies. in this manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success as managing internal operations. similarly, there is intense competition among many companies in the information and services markets, which are generally more labor intensive with competitive margin rates over contract periods of shorter duration. competitors in the information and services markets include the defense industry participants mentioned above as well as many other large and small entities with expertise in various specialized areas. our ability to successfully compete in the information and services markets depends on a number of factors; most important is the capability to deploy skilled professionals, many requiring security clearances, at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of these markets. accordingly, we have implemented various workforce initiatives to ensure our success in attracting, developing and retaining sufficient resources to maintain or improve our competitive position within these markets. executive officers see part iii, item 10, for information about our executive officers. available information throughout this form 10-k, we incorporate by reference information from parts of other documents filed with the securities and exchange commission (sec). the sec allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in this manner, and you should review this information in addition to the information contained in this report. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and proxy statement for the annual shareholders meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the sec. you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings in the investor relations page on our web site at www.northropgrumman.com . the sec also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about sec registrants, including northrop grumman. you may also obtain these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you can obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. item 1a. risk factors our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. we urge you to carefully consider the risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report. n we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for a substantial portion of our business, including programs subject to security classification restrictions on information, and changes affecting this customer capacity to do business with us could have a material adverse effect on us or our prospects. approximately 92 percent of our revenues during 2009 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the u.s. government (which includes foreign military sales). we are a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the u.s. government and its agencies. these contracts are subject to the respective customers political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense -10- table of contents northrop grumman corporation competition, difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and delays in the timing of contract approval, as well as other risks such as contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. in addition, a material amount of our revenues and profits are derived from programs that are subject to security classification restrictions (restricted business), which could limit our ability to discuss details about these programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. as a result, you might have less insight into our restricted business than our other businesses or could experience less ability to evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with the restricted business. n contracts with the u.s. government are subject to uncertain levels of funding, modification due to changes in customer priorities and potential termination. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for certain programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2010 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by congress or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. the impact, severity and duration of the current u.s. economic situation, the sweeping economic plans adopted by the u.s. government, and pressures on the federal budget could also adversely affect the total funding and/or funding for individual programs. in the event that appropriations for one of our programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our future sales under such program. we also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift of government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or bid prospects. in addition, the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the government convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs. termination resulting from our default can expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for contracts. n as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement regulations and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a u.s. audit or investigation. u.s. government contractors must comply with significant procurement regulations and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. if procurement requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and defense contract management agency (dcma). these agencies review our performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. systems that are subject to review include our purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, compensation systems and management information systems. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit -11- table of contents northrop grumman corporation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. we are also, from time to time, subject to u.s. government investigations relating to our operations and are expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws, including the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, and the foreign corrupt practices act. we may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition, if we are found to have violated the law or are indicted or convicted for violations of federal laws related to government security regulations, employment practices or protection of the environment, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law. such convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracting for some period of time. given our dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on us. n competition within our markets and an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate higher competition in some of our core markets as a result of the reduction in budgets for many u.s. government agencies and fewer new program starts. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, projected u.s. defense spending levels for periods beyond the near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. changes in u.s. defense spending may limit certain future market opportunities. we are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are more frequently turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. the competitive environment is also affected by an increase in bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. bid protests could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. even where a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, the resolution extends the time until the contract activity can begin which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise have commenced. n our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and new technologies and maintain a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. the product, program and service needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. accordingly, our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our ability to develop and market our products and services, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. if we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant amount of future business to our competitors, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain market share. operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skills and/or security clearances. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees or could experience difficulty in performing under our contracts if the needs for such employees are unmet. -12- table of contents northrop grumman corporation approximately 20 percent of our 120,700 employees are covered by an aggregate of 32 collective bargaining agreements. we expect to re-negotiate renewals of three of our collective bargaining agreements in 2010, and we are continuing to negotiate an initial contract for a group of employees. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years and are subject to renegotiation at that time. we may experience difficulties with renewals and renegotiations of existing collective bargaining agreements. if we experience such difficulties, we could incur additional expenses and work stoppages. any such expenses or delays could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the recent past we have experienced work stoppages and other labor disruptions in shipbuilding. n many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. in addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period of time. under such terms, we could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and/or collected. we have not experienced any material losses in the last decade in connection with such contract performance incentive provisions. however, if we were to experience launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the future, such events could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. n contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. operating income is adversely affected when we incur contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. this cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties or delays, or workforce-related issues, or if initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost were incorrect. the cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. reasons for cost growth may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the timelines and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance and quality of their products, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. a significant change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. most of our contracts are firm fixed-price contracts or flexibly priced contracts. flexibly priced contracts include both cost-type and fixed-price incentive contracts. due to their nature, firm fixed-price contracts -13- table of contents northrop grumman corporation inherently have more risk than flexibly priced contracts. approximately 33 percent of our annual revenues are derived from firm fixed-price contracts see contracts in part ii, item 7. we typically enter into firm fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably estimated based on experience. in addition, our contracts contain provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. should the terms specified in our contracts not be met, then profitability may be reduced. fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of our firm fixed-price contracts and inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. as work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are generally reduced. in addition, successful performance of firm fixed-price development contracts that include production units is subject to our ability to control cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. while management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price development contracts, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. examples of our significant fixed-price development contracts include the f-16 block 60 combat avionics program and the mesa radar system program for the wedgetail and peace eagle contracts, both of which are performed by the electronic systems segment. under a fixed-price incentive contract, the allowable costs incurred by the contractor are subject to reimbursement, but are subject to a cost-share limit which affects profitability. contracts in shipbuilding are often fixed-price incentive contracts for production of a first item without a separate development contract. accordingly, we face the additional difficulty of estimating production costs on a product that has not yet been designed. further, shipbuilding sometimes enters into follow-on fixed-price contracts after a significant delay from the first production request, and the passage of time makes it more difficult for us to accurately estimate costs for renewed production. under a cost-type contract the allowable costs incurred by the contractor are also subject to reimbursement plus a fee that represents profit. we enter into cost-type contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges. these cost-type programs typically have award or incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods. in these cases the associated financial risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. n our earnings and margins depend, in part, on our ability to perform under contracts and on subcontractor performance as well as raw material and component availability and pricing. when agreeing to contractual terms, our management makes assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. these projections assess the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of product deliveries. if there is a significant change in one or more of these circumstances or estimates, or if we face unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected. we also rely on other companies to provide raw materials and major components for our products and rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. disruptions or performance problems caused by our subcontractors and vendors could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of the vendors or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. -14- table of contents northrop grumman corporation n our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters and other factors that could adversely affect our profitability and our overall financial position. we have significant operations located in regions of the u.s. that may be exposed to damaging storms and other natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural disasters may be significant. should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be insufficient to recover all costs, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position. our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform under a contract. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on the prime contract, which could reduce our profitability due to damages or other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor or from the customer and could result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. natural disasters can also disrupt electrical and other power distribution networks and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. these disruptions could cause adverse effects on our profitability and performance, including computer and internet operation and accessibility. n we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of our self-imposed efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives, awards or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and performance. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. n our international business is subject to greater risks sometimes associated with doing business in foreign countries. although our international business constitutes only 5 percent of total revenues, we are subject to numerous u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on us. changes in regulation or political environment may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. n our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures to prevent and detect reckless or criminal acts committed by employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the -15- table of contents northrop grumman corporation jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, competition and data privacy. however we cannot ensure that we will prevent all such reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. n our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. as a defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure and unlawful attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the smooth operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day to day operations. loss of security within this critical operational infrastructure could disrupt our operations, require significant management attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our performance. we also manage information technology systems for various customers. while we maintain information security policies and procedures for managing these systems, we face generally the same security threats for these systems as for our own systems. computer viruses, attempts to gain access to our customers data or other electronic security breaches could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems for our customers, unauthorized release of confidential or personally identifiable information and corruption of customer data. these events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions we must take, potential liability to customers and litigation expenses. n our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks. the development and operation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, nuclear-powered submarines and other nuclear operations subject us to various risks, including: n potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; n unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security and repair, including repairs required by the nuclear regulatory commission; n limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and n potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control. the u.s. government provides indemnity protection against specified risks under public law 85-804 and the price-anderson nuclear indemnities act for certain of our nuclear operations risks. our nuclear operations are subject to various safety-related requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, department of energy, and nuclear regulatory commission. in the event of non-compliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines or shut down our operations, depending upon the assessment of the severity of the situation. revised security and safety requirements promulgated by these agencies could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. n unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns and other actions commonly referred to as green initiatives. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require significant capital and operating costs, but is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. -16- table of contents northrop grumman corporation environmental laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract while they are listed by the epa. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. the adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our ability to recover such costs under previously priced contracts or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs in the future that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. n we are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income and materially impairing our financial position. the size and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are subject to various existing environmental claims, income tax matters and other litigation, which, if not resolved within established reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3, critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7 and note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. any claims or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. n we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and we have rights in numerous trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government purposes. our patents and other intellectual property are subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. we also rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not subject to patent protection. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors, or other parties, as well as through other security measures. these agreements and security measures may not provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event of an infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management attention away from other aspects of our business. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. -17- table of contents northrop grumman corporation n our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial position. we endeavor to identify and obtain in established markets insurance agreements to cover significant risks and liabilities (including, among others, natural disasters, product liability and business interruption). not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred, including for example, a catastrophic earthquake claim. in some, but not all, circumstances we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. because of the limitations in overall available coverage referred to above, we may have to bear substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have an adverse effect upon our consolidated results of operations and our overall consolidated financial position. additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows and, if litigation with the carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. for example, we commenced legal action against an insurance carrier arising out of a disagreement concerning the coverage of certain losses related to hurricane katrina, and another carrier has denied coverage for certain other losses related to hurricane katrina and advised us that it will seek reimbursement of certain amounts previously advanced by that carrier. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. n changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounts for approximately half of our recorded total assets. we evaluate goodwill amounts for impairment annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and our stock price could result in an impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets. we continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. n anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances may not be realized. as part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, merge with or acquire businesses, or form joint ventures or create strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying products, capabilities or technologies and the management of the transacted operations. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets and partner performance. although we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful. n market volatility and adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and the ability of counterparties to perform on financial instruments. the financial and credit markets recently experienced levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. historically, we have occasionally accessed these markets to support certain business activities including, acquisitions, capital expansion projects, refinancing existing debt and -18- table of contents northrop grumman corporation issuing letters of credit. in the future, we may not be able to obtain capital market financing or credit availability on similar terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. the tightening of credit could also adversely affect our suppliers ability to obtain financing. delays in suppliers ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing could cause us to be unable to meet our contract obligations and could adversely affect our results of operations. the inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay. we have executed transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional parties. these transactions expose us to potential credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty. in addition, our credit risk may be increased when collateral held by us cannot be realized upon a sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. n pension and medical expenses associated with our retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions, future market performance of plan assets, future trends in health care costs and legislative or other regulatory actions. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and post-retirement benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon our various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. in addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. variances from these estimates could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. for example, the recent volatility in the financial markets resulted in lower than expected returns on our pension plan assets in 2008, which resulted in higher pension costs in 2009. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. n unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rates we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include variable-rate short-term borrowings under the credit agreement, and short-term investments. at december 31, 2009, substantially all outstanding borrowings were fixed-rate long-term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. we have a modest exposure to interest rate risk resulting from the interest rate swap agreements described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors 10 organization from time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses, and realign contracts, programs or business areas among and within our operating segments that possess similar customers, expertise, and capabilities. internal realignments are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance development and delivery of products and services. the operating results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes made through december 31, 2010. -1- table of contents northrop grumman corporation as of december 31, 2010, we are aligned into five operating segments: aerospace systems, electronic systems, information systems, shipbuilding, and technical services. see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. strategic actions in july 2010, we announced that we would evaluate whether a separation of the shipbuilding segment would be in the best interests of shareholders, customers, and employees by allowing both the company and shipbuilding to more effectively pursue their respective opportunities to maximize long-term value. as of december 31, 2010, management anticipates that a spin-off of the shipbuilding segment to our shareholders will likely occur in 2011. since any final decision remains subject to approval by our board of directors, shipbuilding financial results are reported in continuing operations. see note 7 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. aerospace systems aerospace systems, headquartered in redondo beach, california, is a leading designer, developer, integrator and producer of manned and unmanned aircraft, spacecraft, high-energy laser systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems critical to maintaining the nation security and leadership in technology. aerospace systems customers, primarily government agencies, use these systems in many different mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; communications; battle management; strike operations; electronic warfare; missile defense; earth observation; space science; and space exploration. the segment consists of four business areas: strike surveillance systems, space systems, battle management engagement systems, and advanced programs technology. strike surveillance systems designs, develops, manufactures and integrates tactical and long-range strike aircraft systems, unmanned systems, and missile systems. these include the rq-4 global hawk unmanned reconnaissance system, b-2 stealth bomber, f-35 lightning ii, f/a-18 super hornet strike fighter, minuteman iii intercontinental ballistic missile (icbm), mq-8b fire scout unmanned aircraft system, multi-platform radar technology insertion program (mp-rtip), and aerial targets. space systems designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems and electronic and communications payloads. major programs include the james webb space telescope (jwst), advanced extremely high frequency (aehf) payload, space tracking and surveillance system (stss) and many restricted programs. battle management engagement systems designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne early warning, surveillance, battlefield management, and electronic warfare systems. key programs include the e-2 hawkeye, joint surveillance target attack radar system (joint stars), broad area maritime surveillance (bams) unmanned aircraft system, long endurance multi intelligence vehicle (lemv), the ea-6b prowler, and its next generation platform, the ea-18g growler. advanced programs technology creates advanced technologies and concepts to satisfy existing and emerging customer needs. this business area matures these technologies and concepts to create and capture new programs that other aerospace systems business areas can execute. existing programs include the navy unmanned combat air system (n-ucas), the airborne laser test bed (altb), and other directed energy and advanced concepts programs. electronic systems electronic systems, headquartered in linthicum, maryland, is a leader in the design, development, manufacture, and support of solutions for sensing, understanding, anticipating, and controlling the environment for our global military, civil, and commercial customers and their operations. electronic systems provides a variety of defense electronics and systems, airborne fire control radars, situational awareness systems, early warning systems, airspace management systems, navigation systems, communications systems, marine systems, space systems, and logistics -2- table of contents northrop grumman corporation services. the segment consists of five business areas: intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance systems; land self protection systems; naval marine systems; navigation systems; and targeting systems. intelligence, surveillance reconnaissance (isr) systems delivers products and services for space satellite applications, airborne and ground based surveillance, multi-sensor processing and analysis to provide battlespace awareness, missile defense, and command and control. the division also develops advanced space-based radar and electro-optical early warning and surveillance systems for strategic, tactical, and weather operations along with systems for enhancing the discovery, sharing, and exploitation of isr data. key products include the space based infrared system (sbirs), defense meteorological satellite program (dmsp), defense support program (dsp), ground processing, exploitation and dissemination systems, the tps-78/703 family of ground based surveillance radars, and the multi-role electronically scanned array (mesa) radar. land self protection systems delivers products, systems, and services that support ground-based, helicopter and fixed wing platforms (manned and unmanned) with sensor and protection systems. these systems perform threat detection and countermeasures that defeat infrared and radio frequency (rf) guided missile and tracking systems. the division also provides integrated electronic warfare capability, communications, and intelligence systems; unattended ground sensors; automatic test equipment; and advanced threat simulators. key programs include the u.s. marine corps ground/air task oriented radar (g/ator) multi-mission radar; the large aircraft infrared countermeasures (laircm) system for the u.s. air force, u.s. navy, and strategic international and nato allies; the an/alq-131(v) electronic countermeasures pods; the lr-100 high-performance radar warning receiver (rwr)/electronic support measures (esm)/electronic intelligence (elint) receiver system; the u.s. army starlite synthetic aperture radar for unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs); the u.s. army vehicle intercom systems (vic 3 and vic-5); the u.s. army next generation automated test system (ngats); the u.s. air force joint threat emitter (jte) training range system; and the vehicle and dismount exploitation radar (vader) system that enables uavs to track individual persons or vehicles. naval marine systems delivers products and services to defense, civil, and commercial markets supporting smart navigation, shipboard radar surveillance, ship control, machinery control, integrated combat management systems for naval surface ships, high-resolution undersea sensors (for mine hunting, situational awareness, and other applications), unmanned marine vehicles, shipboard missile and encapsulated payload launch systems, propulsion and power generation systems, and nuclear reactor instrumentation and control. key products include integrated bridge and navigation systems, voyage management system, integrated platform management systems, integrated combat management system, an/wsn 7 gyro navigator, anti-ship missile defense and surveillance radars (cobra judy, an/spq 9b, an/sps 74), and propulsion equipment and missile launch systems for the virginia -class submarines. navigation systems delivers products and services to defense, civil, and commercial markets supporting situational awareness, inertial navigation in all domains (air, land, sea, and space), embedded global positioning systems, identification friend or foe (iff) systems, acoustic sensors, cockpit video monitors, mission computing, and integrated avionics and electronics systems. key products include the integrated avionics system, the an/tyq-23 aircraft command and control system, fiber optic acoustic sensors, and a robust portfolio of inertial sensors and navigation systems. targeting systems delivers products and services supporting airborne combat avionics (fire control radars, multi-function apertures and pods), airborne electro-optical/infrared targeting systems, and laser/electro-optical systems including hand-held, tripod-mounted, and ground or air vehicle mounted systems. key products include fire control radars for the b-1b, f-16 (worldwide), f-22 u.s. air force, and f-35; the an/apn 241 navigation/weather radar; the an/aaq 28(v) litening family of targeting pods; distributed aperture eo/ir systems; and the lightweight laser designator rangefinder (lldr). in addition to the product and service lines discussed above, the electronic systems segment includes the advanced concepts technologies division (ac td), an organization that develops next-generation systems, technologies, and architectures to position the segment in key developing markets. ac td focuses on -3- table of contents northrop grumman corporation understanding customer mission needs, conceiving affordable solutions, and demonstrating the readiness and effectiveness of electronic systems products, including all types of sensors, microsystems, and associated information systems. the segment uses a product ownership approach, which guides the transition of new technology from laboratory to market and implements multi-function modular open systems architecture product families that are readily reconfigurable and scalable to support new requirements, new products or component obsolescence. information systems information systems, headquartered in mclean, virginia, is a leading global provider of advanced solutions for the dod, national intelligence, federal civilian, state and local agencies, and commercial customers. products and services are focused on the fields of command, control, communications, computers and intelligence; air and missile defense; airborne reconnaissance; intelligence processing; decision support systems; cybersecurity; information technology; and systems engineering and integration. the segment consists of three business areas: defense systems; intelligence systems; and civil systems. defense systems is a major end-to-end provider of net-enabled battle management c4isr systems, decision superiority, and mission-enabling solutions and services in support of the national defense and security of our nation and its allies. the division is a prime developer and integrator of many of the dod programs-of-record, particularly for command and control and communications for the u.s. air force, u.s. army, u.s. navy, and joint forces. major products and services include enterprise infrastructure and applications, mission systems integration, military communications networks, battle management c2 and decision support systems, global and operational c2, ground and maritime combat systems, air and missile defense, combat support solutions and services, defense logistics automation, and force and critical infrastructure protection. systems are installed in operational and command centers world-wide and across all dod services and joint commands. intelligence systems is focused on the delivery of world-class systems and services to the u.s. intelligence community. major offerings include studies analysis, systems development, enterprise it, prime systems integration, products, sustainment, and operations and maintenance. the division focuses on several mission areas including airborne isr, geospatial intelligence, ground systems, integrated intelligence and dynamic cyber defense. sustaining and growing the business in today market mandates sharing meaningful information across agencies through development of cost effective systems that are responsive to mutual requirements. intelligence systems is also creating new responsive capabilities leveraging existing systems to provide solutions to customer needs through labs and integration centers. civil systems provides specialized information systems and services in support of critical government civil missions, such as homeland security, public health, cyber security, air traffic management and public safety. primary customers are federal civilian, state and local agencies, and the u.s. postal service. civil systems develops and implements solutions that combine a deep understanding of civil government domains with core expertise in prime systems integration, enterprise applications development, and high value it services including cyber security, identity management and advanced network communications. shipbuilding shipbuilding, headquartered in newport news, virginia, is the nation sole industrial designer, builder and refueler of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, the sole supplier and builder of amphibious assault and expeditionary warfare ships to the u.s. navy, the sole builder of national security cutters for the u.s. coast guard, and one of only two companies that builds the u.s. navy current fleet of ddg-51 arleigh burke -class destroyers. shipbuilding is also a full-service systems provider for the design, engineering, construction and life cycle support of major programs for surface ships and a provider of fleet support and maintenance services for the u.s. navy. the segment consists of seven business areas: aircraft carriers; expeditionary warfare; surface combatants; submarines; coast guard coastal defense; fleet support; and services other. -4- table of contents northrop grumman corporation aircraft carriers shipbuilding is the nation sole industrial designer, builder, and refueler of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers. the u.s. navy newest carrier and the last of the nimitz -class, the uss george h. w. bush , was delivered in may 2009. design work on the next generation carrier, the ford- class has been underway for over eight years. the ford- class incorporates transformational technologies including an enhanced flight deck with increased sortie rates, improved weapons movement, a redesigned island, a new nuclear power plant design, flexibility to incorporate future technologies, and reduced manning. in 2008, shipbuilding was awarded a $5.1 billion contract for construction of the first ship of the class, the gerald r. ford , which is scheduled for delivery in 2015. the segment also provides ongoing maintenance for the u.s. navy aircraft carrier fleet through overhaul, refueling, and repair work. in 2009, the completion of the refueling and complex overhaul of the uss carl vinson was followed by the arrival of the uss theodore roosevelt, which is expected to be redelivered to the u.s. navy following its refueling in early 2013. expeditionary warfare shipbuilding is the sole provider of amphibious assault ships for the u.s. navy. in 2009, construction of the wasp class multipurpose amphibious assault ship was concluded with the delivery of lhd 8. construction of the san antonio- class continues, with five ships delivered from 2005 to 2009 and four currently in construction. in 2007, shipbuilding was awarded the construction contract for lha 6, the first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault ships. the first ship of the america- class ships is currently under construction and is expected to join the fleet in 2013. surface combatants shipbuilding designs and constructs arleigh burke- class aegis-guided missile destroyers, as well as major components for the zumwalt- class, a land attack destroyer. shipbuilding has delivered 26 arleigh burke destroyers to the u.s. navy, currently has one under construction, and was awarded a long-lead time material contract for a restart of the arleigh burke- class in december 2009. shipbuilding participation in the zumwalt program includes detailed design and construction of the ships integrated composite deckhouses, as well as portions of the ships peripheral vertical launch systems. submarines shipbuilding is one of only two u.s. companies that designs and builds nuclear-powered submarines. in february 1997, the company and electric boat, a wholly owned subsidiary of general dynamics corporation, reached an agreement to cooperatively build virginia- class nuclear attack submarines. the initial four submarines in the class were delivered in 2004, 2006, and 2008. the construction contract for the second block of six virginia- class submarines was awarded in august 2003 and the first two submarines under this contract were delivered in 2008 and 2009. construction on the remaining four submarines is underway, with the last scheduled to be delivered in 2014. in december 2008, the construction contract for the third block of eight virginia- class submarines was awarded. the multi-year contract allowed shipbuilding and its teammate to proceed with the construction of one submarine per year in 2009 and 2010, and allows for the construction of two submarines per year from 2011 to 2013. the eighth submarine to be procured under this contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019. coast guard coastal defense shipbuilding is a joint venture partner along with lockheed martin for the coast guard deepwater modernization program. shipbuilding has design and production responsibility for surface ships. in 2006, the shipbuilding/lockheed martin joint venture was awarded a 43-month contract extension for the deepwater program. the first national security cutter (nsc), uscgc berthoff , was delivered to the coast guard in 2008 followed by the uscgc waesche (nsc-2) in 2009. the stratton (nsc-3) is currently in construction. the construction contract for nsc-4 was awarded in november 2010. fleet support fleet support provides after-market services, including on-going maintenance and repair work, for a wide array of naval and commercial vessels. shipbuilding has ship repair facilities in the u.s. navy largest homeports of norfolk, virginia, and san diego, california. services other shipbuilding provides various services to commercial nuclear and non-nuclear industrial customers. in january 2008, savannah river nuclear solutions, a joint venture among shipbuilding, fluor corporation, and honeywell, was awarded a contract for site management and operations of the u.s. department of energy savannah river site in aiken, south carolina. in october 2008, shipbuilding -5- table of contents northrop grumman corporation announced the formation of a joint venture with areva np to build a new manufacturing and engineering facility in newport news, virginia to help supply the growing american nuclear energy sector. technical services technical services, headquartered in herndon, virginia, is a provider of logistics, infrastructure, and sustainment support, while also providing a wide array of technical services including training and simulation. the segment consists of three business areas: defense and government services; training solutions, and integrated logistics and modernization. defense and government services provides logistics, maintenance and reconstitution services, as well as civil engineering work, aerial and ground range operations in support of the military, technical support functions which include space launch services, construction, protective and emergency services, and range-sensor-instrumentation operations. primary customers include the department of energy (doe), the dod, the department of homeland security, and the u.s. intelligence community, in both domestic and international locations. training solutions provides training across the live, virtual and constructive domains to both the u.s. military and international peacekeeping forces, designs and develops future conflict training scenarios, and provides u.s. warfighters and allies with tactics, techniques and procedures to be successful on the battlefield. this business area also offers diverse training applications ranging from battle command to professional military education. primary customers include the dod, department of state, and department of homeland security. integrated logistics and modernization provides life cycle product support and weapons system sustainment. this business area is focused on providing performance based logistical support to the warfighter including supply chain management services, warehousing and inventory transportation, field services and mobilization, sustaining engineering, maintenance, repair and overhaul, and ongoing weapon maintenance and technical assistance. the group specializes in performing contractor logistics support of both original equipment manufacturer (oem) and third party aviation platforms involving maintenance, modification, modernization and rebuilding essential parts and assemblies. primary customers include the dod as well as international military and commercial customers. corporate our principal executive offices are located at 1840 century park east, los angeles, california 90067. our telephone number is (310) 553-6262 and our home page on the internet is www.northropgrumman.com . references to our website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. see properties in part i, item 2. summary segment financial data for a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see segment operating results in part ii, item 7, and note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. customers and revenue concentration our primary customer is the u.s. government. revenue from the u.s. government (which includes foreign military sales) accounted for approximately 92 percent of total revenues in 2010, 2009, and 2008. no single product or service accounted for more than ten percent of total revenue during any period presented. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. -6- table of contents northrop grumman corporation patents the following table summarizes the number of patents we own or have pending as of december 31, 2010: owned pending total u.s. patents 3,192 329 3,521 foreign patents 2,355 553 2,908 total 5,547 882 6,429 patents developed while under contract with the u.s. government may be subject to use by the u.s. government. we license intellectual property to, and from, third parties. we believe our ability to conduct operations would not be materially affected by the loss of any particular intellectual property right. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. seasonality no material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. our revenue recognition timing is based on several factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments revenue recognition in part ii, item 7. backlog at december 31, 2010, total backlog was $64.2 billion compared with $69.2 billion at the end of 2009. approximately 47 percent of backlog at december 31, 2010, is expected to be converted into sales in 2011. total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded indefinite delivery indefinite quantity (idiq) orders. for multi-year services contracts with non-federal government customers having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. backlog is converted into sales as work is performed or deliveries are made. for backlog by segment see backlog in part ii, item 7. raw materials the most significant raw material we require is steel, used primarily for shipbuilding. we have mitigated some supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with a number of steel suppliers. in addition, we have mitigated price risk related to steel purchases through certain contractual arrangements with the u.s. government. while we have generally been able to obtain key raw materials required in our production processes in a timely manner, a significant delay in supply deliveries could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see risk factors in part i, item 1a and overview outlook in part ii, item 7. government regulation our businesses are affected by numerous laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate our contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. if any of our u.s. government contracts were to be terminated for convenience, we would generally be protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. in the rare circumstance where a u.s. government contract does not have such termination protection, we attempt to mitigate the termination risk through other means. termination resulting from our default may expose us to liability and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for contracts. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. -7- table of contents northrop grumman corporation certain programs with the u.s. government that are prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in detail are referred to as restricted in this form 10-k. the consolidated financial statements and financial information in this form 10-k reflect the operating results of restricted programs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (gaap). see risk factors in part i, item 1a. research and development our research and development activities primarily include independent research and development (ir d) efforts related to government programs. ir d expenses are included in general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to u.s. government contracts. ir d expenses totaled $603 million, $610 million, and $564 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. we charge expenses for research and development sponsored by the customer directly to the related contracts. employee relations we believe that we maintain good relations with our 117,100 employees, of which approximately 20 percent are covered by 32 collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated or re-negotiated twelve of our collective bargaining agreements in 2010. these negotiations had no material adverse effect on our results of operations. for risks associated with collective bargaining agreements, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. environmental matters our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. we provide for the estimated cost to complete environmental remediation where we determine it is probable that we will incur such costs in the future to address environmental impacts at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a potentially responsible party (prp) by the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) or similarly designated by other environmental agencies. these estimates may change given the inherent difficulty in estimating environmental cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws, regulations, and their interpretations. we assess the potential impact on our financial statements by estimating the possible remediation costs that we could reasonably incur on a site-by-site basis. these estimates consider our environmental engineers professional judgment and, when necessary, we consult with outside environmental specialists. in most instances, we can only estimate a range of reasonably possible costs. we accrue our best estimate when determinable or the minimum amount when no single amount is more probable. we record accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting period in which it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated. we record insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable. our environmental remediation accruals do not include any litigation costs related to environmental matters, nor do they include any amounts recorded as asset retirement obligations. we estimate that at december 31, 2010, the range of reasonably possible future costs for environmental remediation sites is $280 million to $674 million, of which we accrued $109 million in other current liabilities and $207 million in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position. we record environmental accruals on an undiscounted basis. at sites involving multiple parties, we provide environmental accruals based upon our expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. we expense or capitalize environmental expenditures as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in currently operating facilities. we may have to incur costs in addition to those already estimated and accrued if other prps do not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we have made the investments we believe necessary to comply with environmental laws. -8- table of contents northrop grumman corporation we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives. we established a goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions over a five-year period through december 31, 2014. to comply with existing green initiatives and our greenhouse gas emissions goal, we expect to incur capital and operating costs, but at this time we do not expect that such costs will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. competitive conditions we compete with many companies in the u.s. defense industry and the information and services markets for a number of programs, both large and small. in the u.s. defense industry, lockheed martin corporation, the boeing company, raytheon company, general dynamics corporation, l-3 communications corporation, saic, and bae systems inc. are our primary competitors. intense competition and long operating cycles are both key characteristics of our business and the defense industry. it is common in the defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, become a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. it is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not frequently found in other industries. our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our ability to develop and market our products and services, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services affordably and efficiently. like most of our competitors, we are vertically integrated but also have a high reliance on the supply chain. we must continue to maintain dependable sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic components, and major subassemblies. in this increasingly complex manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is vital to our success. similarly, there is intense competition among many companies in the information and services markets, which are generally more labor intensive with highly competitive margin rates and contract performance periods of shorter duration. competitors in the information and services markets include the defense industry participants mentioned above as well as many other large and small entities with specialized expertise. our ability to successfully compete in the information and services markets depends on a number of factors. the most important factor is the ability to deploy skilled professionals, many requiring security clearances, at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of these markets. accordingly, we have implemented various workforce initiatives to ensure our success in attracting, developing and retaining these skilled professionals in sufficient numbers to maintain or improve our competitive position within these markets. in both the u.s. defense industry and information and services markets, the federal government has recently indicated that it intends to increase industry competition for its future procurement of products and services. this may lead to fewer sole source awards and more emphasis on cost competitiveness and affordability than in the past. in addition, the dod has announced several initiatives to improve efficiency, refocus priorities and enhance dod best practices including those used to procure goods and services from defense contractors. see overview in part ii, item 7, and risk factors in part i, item 1a. these new initiatives, when implemented, could result in fewer new opportunities for our industry as a whole, and a reduced opportunity set would in turn intensify competition within the industry as companies compete for a more limited set of new programs. executive officers see part iii, item 10, for information about our executive officers. -9- table of contents northrop grumman corporation available information throughout this form 10-k, we incorporate by reference information from parts of other documents filed with the securities and exchange commission (sec). the sec allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in this manner, and you should review this information in addition to the information contained in this report. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and proxy statement for the annual shareholders meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the sec. you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings in the investor relations page on our web site at www.northropgrumman.com . the sec also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about sec registrants, including northrop grumman. you may also obtain these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you can obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. item 1a. risk factors our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. we urge you to carefully consider the risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report. n we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for a substantial portion of our business, including programs subject to security classification restrictions on information, and changes affecting this customer ability to do business with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for many programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2011 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by congress or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. the entire federal government is currently funded under a continuing resolution until march 4, 2011. the impact, severity and duration of the current u.s. economic situation, the sweeping economic plans adopted by the u.s. government, and pressures on the federal budget could also adversely affect the total funding and/or funding for individual programs. in the event that appropriations for any of our programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our future sales under such program, and on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift of government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering -10- table of contents northrop grumman corporation reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. in the rare circumstance where a u.s. government contract does not have such termination protection, we attempt to mitigate the termination risk through other means. to the extent such means are unavailable or do not fully address the costs incurred or profit on those costs, we could face significant losses from the termination for convenience of a contract that lacks termination protection. termination by the u.s. government of a contract for convenience could also result in the cancellation of future work on that program. termination by the u.s. government of a contract due to our default could require us to pay for re-procurement costs in excess of the original contract price, net of the value of work accepted from the original contract. termination of a contract due to our default may expose us to liability and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for contracts. n as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement regulations and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. u.s. government contractors must comply with many significant procurement regulations and other requirements. these regulations and requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. if any such regulations or procurement requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and defense contract management agency (dcma). these agencies review our performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, compensation systems and management information systems. any costs found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. the u.s. government, from time to time, recommends to its contractors that certain contract prices be reduced, or that costs allocated to certain contracts be disallowed. these recommendations can involve substantial amounts. in the past, as a result of such audits and other investigations and inquiries, we have on occasion made adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. we are also, from time to time, subject to u.s. government investigations relating to our operations, and we are subject to or expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws, including but not limited to the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, cost accounting standards, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act and the foreign corrupt practices act. if we are convicted or otherwise found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination and the assessment of penalties and fines, compensatory or treble damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. such findings or convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracting. given our dependence on -11- table of contents northrop grumman corporation government contracting, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. n the department of defense has announced plans for significant changes to its business practices that could have a material effect on its overall procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards. in september 2010, the dod announced various initiatives designed to gain efficiencies, refocus priorities and enhance business practices used by the dod, including those used to procure goods and services from defense contractors. these initiatives are organized into five major areas: affordability and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition; services acquisition; and processes and bureaucracy. these new initiatives are expected to have a significant impact on the contracting environment in which we do business with our dod customers and they could have a significant impact on current programs as well as new dod business opportunities. in his january 6, 2011, announcement regarding future plans, the secretary of defense employed some of these initiatives to reduce costs and free up resources for reinvestment. for example, he discussed using multi-year procurement of navy aircraft, information technology infrastructure streamlining, reductions in outsourcing, consolidation of operating centers and staffs, improving depot and supply chain processes, downsizing intelligence organizations, and eliminating some elements of the dod bureaucracy. changes to the dod acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. these initiatives are still fairly new and the full impact to our business remains uncertain and subject to the manner in which the dod implements them. n competition within our markets and an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate higher competition in some of our core markets as a result of the reduction in budgets for many u.s. government agencies and fewer new program starts. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, projected u.s. defense spending levels for periods beyond the near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. changes in u.s. defense spending may limit certain future market opportunities. we are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, may turn to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. bid protests could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. even where a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, the resolution typically extends the time until the contract activity can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise have commenced. n our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and new technologies and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. the product, program and service needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. accordingly, our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our ability to develop and market our products and services, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. if we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant amount of future business to our competitors, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain market share. operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skills and/or security clearances. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher -12- table of contents northrop grumman corporation labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees or could experience difficulty in performing under our contracts if the needs for such employees are unmet. approximately 20 percent of our 117,100 employees are covered by an aggregate of 32 collective bargaining agreements. we expect to re-negotiate renewals of four of our collective bargaining agreements in 2011. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years and are subject to renegotiation at that time. we may experience difficulties with renewals and renegotiations of existing collective bargaining agreements. if we experience such difficulties, we could incur additional expenses and work stoppages. any such expenses or delays could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. n many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. in addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period of time. under such terms, we could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and/or collected. we have not experienced any material losses in the last decade in connection with such contract performance incentive provisions. however, if we were to experience launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the future, such events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. n contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. this cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties or delays, or workforce-related issues, or if initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost were incorrect. the cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. reasons for cost growth may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the timelines and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance and quality of their products, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. a significant change in cost estimates on one or -13- table of contents northrop grumman corporation more programs could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. most of our contracts are firm fixed-price contracts or flexibly priced contracts. our risk varies with the type of contract. flexibly priced contracts include both cost-type and fixed-price incentive contracts. due to their nature, firm fixed-price contracts inherently have more risk than flexibly priced contracts. approximately 33 percent of our annual revenues are derived from firm fixed-price contracts see contracts in part ii, item 7. we typically enter into firm fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably estimated based on experience. in addition, our contracts contain provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. should the terms specified in our contracts not be met, then profitability may be reduced. fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of our firm fixed-price contracts and inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. as work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are generally reduced. in addition, successful performance of firm fixed-price development contracts that include production units is subject to our ability to control cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. while management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price development contracts, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. under a fixed-price incentive contract, the allowable costs incurred by the contractor are subject to reimbursement, but are subject to a cost-share limit which affects profitability. contracts in shipbuilding are often fixed-price incentive contracts for production of a first item without a separate development contract. accordingly, we face the additional difficulty of estimating production costs on a product that has not yet been designed. further, shipbuilding sometimes enters into follow-on fixed-price contracts after a significant delay from the first production request, and the passage of time makes it more difficult for us to accurately estimate costs for renewed production. under a cost-type contract the allowable costs incurred by the contractor are also subject to reimbursement plus a fee that represents profit. we enter into cost-type contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges. these cost-type programs typically have award or incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods. in these cases the associated financial risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. n our earnings and margins depend, in part, on our ability to perform under contracts. when agreeing to contractual terms, our management makes assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. these projections assess the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of product deliveries. if there is a significant change in one or more of these circumstances or estimates, or if we face unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of one or more of these contracts may be adversely affected. n our earnings and margins depend, in part, on subcontractor performance as well as raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials and major components for our products and rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. disruptions or performance problems caused by our subcontractors and vendors could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of the vendors or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. -14- table of contents northrop grumman corporation our costs may increase over the term of our contracts. through cost escalation provisions contained in some of our u.s. government contracts, we may be protected from increases in material costs to the extent that the increases in our costs are in line with industry indices. however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty even with these provisions. a significant delay in supply deliveries of our key raw materials required in our production processes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. there are currently several components for which there may be only one supplier. the inability of a sole source supplier to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. n our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters and other factors that could adversely affect our profitability and our overall financial position. we have significant operations located in regions of the u.s. that may be exposed to damaging storms and other natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes, and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover all costs, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform under a contract. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural and environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on the prime contract, which could reduce our profitability due to damages or other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor or from the customer and could result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. natural disasters can also disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, including computer and internet operation and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. these disruptions could cause adverse effects on our profitability and performance. environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the timing of our performance under our contracts with the u.s. navy and the u.s. coast guard. n we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of our self-imposed efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives, awards or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and performance. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. -15- table of contents northrop grumman corporation n our international business exposes us to additional risks. although our international business constitutes only 5 percent of total revenues, we are subject to numerous u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on us. changes in regulation or political environment may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. the services and products we provide internationally, including through the use of subcontractors, are sometimes in countries with unstable governments, in areas of military conflict or at military installations. this increases the risk of an incident resulting in damage or destruction to our products or resulting in injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties. we maintain insurance to mitigate risk and potential liabilities related to our international operations, but our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover these claims and liabilities and we may be forced to bear substantial costs arising from those claims. (see additional discussion of possible inadequacy of our insurance coverage below). in addition, any accidents or incidents that occur in connection with our international operations could result in negative publicity for the company, which may adversely affect our reputation and make it more difficult for us to compete for future contracts or result in the loss of existing and future contracts. the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but any one or more of them could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. n our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures to prevent and detect reckless or criminal acts committed by employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, security clearance breaches, cost accounting and billing, competition and data privacy. however, we cannot ensure that we will prevent all such reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation. n our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. as a defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure and unlawful attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the smooth operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. loss of security within this critical operational infrastructure could disrupt our operations, require significant management attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our performance. we also manage information technology systems for various customers. while we maintain information security policies and procedures for managing these systems, we generally face the same security threats for these systems as for our own systems. computer viruses, attempts to gain access to our customers data or other electronic security breaches could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems for our customers, unauthorized release of confidential or personally identifiable information and corruption of customer data. -16- table of contents northrop grumman corporation these events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions we must take, potential liability to customers and litigation expenses. n our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks. the development and operation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, nuclear-powered submarines, nuclear facilities and other nuclear operations subject us to various risks, including: n potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; n unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security and repair, including repairs required by the nuclear regulatory commission; n reputational harm; and n potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control. the u.s. government provides indemnity protection against specified risks under our contracts pursuant to public law 85-804 and the price-anderson nuclear industries indemnity act for certain of our nuclear operations risks. our nuclear operations are subject to various safety-related requirements imposed by the u.s. navy, doe, and nuclear regulatory commission. in the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines or shut down our operations, depending upon the assessment of the severity of the situation. revised security and safety requirements promulgated by these agencies could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. additionally, while we maintain insurance for certain risks related to transportation of low level nuclear materials and waste, such as contaminated clothing, and for regulatory changes in the health, safety and fire protection areas, there can be no assurances that such insurance will be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. n unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns and other actions commonly referred to as green initiatives. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require significant operating and capital costs. environmental laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concludes that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract while they are listed by the epa. the adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our ability to recover such costs under previously priced contracts or -17- table of contents northrop grumman corporation financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs in the future that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. n we are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us. resolution of these matters may require material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income. the size, type and complexity of our business make us highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are and may become subject to various environmental claims, income tax matters and other litigation, which, if not resolved within established reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3, critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7 and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. any claims and litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. n we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property. the u.s. government has rights to use certain intellectual property that we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. our intellectual property is subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. we also rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as through other security measures. these agreements and security measures may not provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event of an infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management attention away from other aspects of our business. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. in some instances, we have licensed the proprietary intellectual property of others, but we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. n our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial position. we endeavor to identify and obtain in established markets insurance agreements to cover significant risks and liabilities (including, for example, natural disasters and product liability). not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred, including for example, a catastrophic earthquake claim. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. because of the limitations in overall available coverage referred to above, we may have to bear substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have an adverse effect upon our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows and, if litigation with the carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we commenced legal action against an insurance carrier arising out of a disagreement concerning the coverage of certain losses related to hurricane katrina, and another carrier has denied coverage for certain other losses related to -18- table of contents northrop grumman corporation hurricane katrina and advised us that it will seek reimbursement of certain amounts previously advanced by that carrier. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. n changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounts for approximately half of our recorded total assets. we evaluate goodwill amounts for impairment annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and our stock price could result in an impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets. we continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. n anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances may not be realized. as part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, merge with or acquire businesses, or form joint ventures or create strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying products, capabilities or technologies and the management of the transacted operations. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets and partner performance. although we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful. n we are exploring strategic alternatives for our shipbuilding segment. we cannot assure you that a transaction will result, or that, if completed, we would realize the anticipated benefits thereof. in july 2010, we announced that we are evaluating strategic alternatives for the shipbuilding segment, including, but not limited to, a spin-off to our shareholders. in preparation for an anticipated spin-off of the shipbuilding business to our shareholders, a registration statement on form 10 for the shares of our wholly owned subsidiary, huntington ingalls industries, inc., the entity that would hold the shipbuilding business, was initially filed with the securities and exchange commission in october 2010, with amendments filed in november 2010, december 2010, and january 2011. we cannot assure you that the exploration of these strategic alternatives will result in any transaction. our ability to complete a transaction involving the shipbuilding segment in a timely manner, or even at all, could be subject to several factors, including: changes in the company operating performance; our ability to obtain any necessary consents or approvals; changes in governmental regulations and policies; and changes in business, political and economic conditions in the united states. as a condition of an anticipated spin-off, we have obtained a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service and expect to receive an opinion of counsel that the spin-off will be tax-free to the company and our shareholders but can give no assurance that any anticipated spin-off will ultimately qualify as a tax-free transaction. if a transaction involving the shipbuilding segment is delayed for any reason, we may not realize the anticipated benefits, and if a transaction does not occur, we will not realize such benefits. each of these risks could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. -19- table of contents northrop grumman corporation n market volatility and adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and the ability of counterparties to perform on financial instruments. the financial and credit markets recently experienced high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. historically, we have occasionally accessed these markets to support certain business activities, including acquisitions, capital expansion projects, refinancing existing debt and issuing letters of credit. in the future, we may not be able to obtain capital market financing or bank financing when needed on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. a tightening of credit could also adversely affect our suppliers ability to obtain financing. delays in suppliers ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could cause us to be unable to meet our contract obligations and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay. we have executed transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional parties. these transactions expose us to potential credit risk in the event of counterparty default. n pension and medical expenses associated with our retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions, future market performance of plan assets, future trends in health care costs and legislative or other regulatory actions. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and post-retirement benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon our various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. in addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. variances from these estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. for example, the recent volatility in the financial markets resulted in lower than expected returns on our pension plan assets in 2008, which resulted in higher pension costs in subsequent years. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. additionally, due to government regulations, pension plan cost recoveries under our government contracts may occur in different periods from when those pension costs are accrued for financial statement purposes or when pension funding is made. timing differences between pension costs accrued for financial statement purposes or when pension funding occurs compared to when such costs are recoverable as allowable costs under our government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. in may 2010, the u.s. cost accounting standards board published a proposed rulemaking that, if adopted, could provide a framework to partially harmonize these funding timing differences. see overview industry factors, recent developments in u.s. cost accounting standards (cas) pension recovery rules in part ii, item 7 for further discussion. n unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. in addition, timing differences in the recognition of income from contracts for financial statement purposes and for income tax regulations can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments which can have a -20- table of contents northrop grumman corporation significant impact on cash flow in a particular period. furthermore, changes in applicable domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in our tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial reporting income and taxable income, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability and cash flow. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rates we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include variable-rate short-term borrowings under the credit agreement and short-term investments. at december 31, 2010, substantially all outstanding borrowings were fixed-rate long-term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. we have a modest exposure to interest rate risk resulting from an interest swap agreement. our sensitivity to a 1 percent change in interest rates is tied to our $2 billion credit agreement, which had no balance outstanding at december 31, 2010, or 2009, and to our interest rate swap agreement. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors 15 year ended december 31 $ in millions 2006 2005 2004 operating margin information services mission systems $ 471 $ 374 $ 314 information technology 352 328 246 technical services 110 89 71 aerospace integrated systems 551 499 431 space technology 293 274 236 electronics 744 702 661 ships 393 249 395 other (17 ) (3 ) intersegment eliminations (117 ) (84 ) (59 ) total segment operating margin 2,797 2,414 2,292 non-segment factors affecting operating margin unallocated expenses (287 ) (190 ) (282 ) net pension expense adjustment (37 ) (21 ) (12 ) reversal of royalty income included above (19 ) (10 ) (12 ) total operating margin $ 2,454 $ 2,193 $ 1,986 unallocated expenses the reconciling item captioned unallocated expenses includes the portion of corporate expenses such as management and administration, legal, environmental, certain compensation and retiree benefits, and other expenses not considered allowable or allocable under applicable u.s. government cost accounting standards (cas) regulations and the federal acquisition regulation, and therefore not allocated to the segments. net pension expense adjustment the net pension expense adjustment reflects the excess pension expense determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (gaap) over the pension expense allocated to the operating segments under cas. realignments the company, from time to time, acquires or disposes of businesses, and realigns contracts, programs or business areas among its operating segments that possess similar customers, expertise, and capabilities. these realignments are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance development and delivery of products and services. the operating results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes. -10- table of contents northrop grumman corporation other financial information year ended december 31 $ in millions 2006 2005 2004 contract acquisitions information services mission systems $ 5,717 $ 4,442 $ 4,846 information technology 4,617 3,962 3,680 technical services 2,288 1,368 1,464 aerospace integrated systems 6,107 4,544 5,042 space technology 4,314 2,643 3,455 electronics 7,167 6,346 6,542 ships 10,045 2,749 5,670 other 19 217 intersegment eliminations (1,500 ) (1,565 ) (1,293 ) total contract acquisitions $ 38,755 $ 24,508 $ 29,623 capital expenditures information services mission systems $ 45 $ 54 $ 23 information technology 32 35 27 technical services 4 5 4 aerospace integrated systems 119 142 111 space technology 107 123 123 electronics 130 166 146 ships 287 266 220 other 3 corporate 13 33 15 total capital expenditures $ 737 $ 824 $ 672 depreciation and amortization information services mission systems $ 30 $ 57 $ 55 information technology 46 49 48 technical services 7 8 8 aerospace integrated systems 110 102 90 space technology 136 142 132 electronics 211 247 244 ships 153 155 148 other 2 corporate 12 12 6 total depreciation and amortization $ 705 $ 772 $ 733 -11- table of contents northrop grumman corporation december 31, $ in millions 2006 2005 assets information services mission systems $ 4,701 $ 4,750 information technology 3,305 3,319 technical services 1,092 993 aerospace integrated systems 2,202 2,271 space technology 4,541 4,615 electronics 5,454 5,577 ships 6,946 6,756 other 14 segment assets 28,241 28,295 corporate 3,768 5,919 total assets $ 32,009 $ 34,214 funded backlog information services mission systems $ 2,952 $ 2,309 information technology 2,830 2,244 technical services 1,066 567 aerospace integrated systems 4,285 3,678 space technology 1,936 972 electronics 6,585 5,996 ships 10,854 6,130 other 5 total funded backlog $ 30,508 $ 21,901 substantially all of the company assets are located or maintained in the united states. backlog is converted into the following years sales as costs are incurred or deliveries are made. approximately 65 percent of the 2006 year-end funded backlog is expected to be converted into sales in 2007. customers and revenue concentration the company primary customer is the u.s. government. revenue from the u.s. government accounted for approximately 90 percent, 90 percent, and 88 percent of total revenues in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. no other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of total revenue during any period presented. no single product or service accounted for more than 10 percent of total revenue during any period presented. -12- table of contents northrop grumman corporation patents the following table summarizes the number of patents the company owns or has pending as of december 31, 2006: owned pending total u.s. patents 3,507 749 4,256 foreign patents 2,515 1,977 4,492 total 6,022 2,726 8,748 patents developed while under contract with the u.s. government may be subject to use by the u.s. government. in addition the company licenses intellectual property to, and from, third parties. management believes the company ability to conduct its operations would not be materially affected by the loss of any particular intellectual property right. seasonality no material portion of the company business is considered to be seasonal. the timing of revenue recognition is determined upon several factors including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. see revenue recognition in part ii, item 7. raw materials the most significant raw material required by the company is steel, used primarily for ship building. the company has mitigated supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with a number of steel suppliers. in addition, the company has mitigated price risk related to its steel purchases through certain contractual arrangements with the u.s. government. while the company has generally been able to obtain key raw materials required in its production processes in a timely manner, a significant delay in receipt of these supplies by the company could have a material effect on the company results of operations. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. government regulation the company business is affected by numerous laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. certain programs with the u.s. government that are prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in detail are referred to as restricted in this form 10-k. the consolidated financial statements and financial information contained within this form 10-k reflect the operating results of restricted programs under gaap. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. research and development company-sponsored research and development activities primarily include independent research and development (ir d) efforts related to government programs. ir d expenses are included in general and administrative expenses and are allocated to u.s. government contracts. company-sponsored research and development expenses totaled $574 million, $538 million, and $504 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. expenses for research and development sponsored by the customer are charged directly to the related contracts. -13- table of contents northrop grumman corporation employee relations the company believes that it maintains good relations with its 122,200 employees, of which approximately 19 percent are covered by 32 collective bargaining agreements. the company expects to re-negotiate two of its larger collective bargaining agreements and 15 of its smaller agreements in 2007. it is not expected that these negotiations will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. environmental matters federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the environment affect the company manufacturing operations. the company has provided for the estimated cost to complete environmental remediation where the company has determined it is probable that the company will incur such costs in the future to address environmental impacts at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where it has been named a potentially responsible party (prp) by the environmental protection agency or similarly designated by other environmental agencies. these estimates may change given the inherent difficulty in estimating environmental cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws, regulations, and their interpretations. in order to assess the potential impact on the company financial statements, management estimates the possible remediation costs that reasonably could be incurred by the company on a site-by-site basis. such estimates take into consideration the professional judgment of the company environmental engineers and, when necessary, consultation with outside environmental specialists. in most instances, only a range of reasonably possible costs can be estimated. however, in the determination of accruals, the most probable amount is used when determinable, and the minimum is used when no single amount is more probable. the company records accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting period in which the company responsibility is established and the costs can be reasonably estimated. the company does not anticipate and record insurance recoveries before it has determined that collection is probable. management estimates that at december 31, 2006, the range of reasonably possible future costs for environmental remediation sites is $224 million to $319 million, of which $257 million is accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position. environmental accruals are recorded on an undiscounted basis. at sites involving multiple parties, the company provides environmental accruals based upon its expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in currently operating facilities. in addition, should other prps not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, the company may have to incur costs in addition to those already estimated and accrued, which could have a material effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the company has made the investments it believes necessary in order to comply with environmental laws. competitive condition northrop grumman, along with lockheed martin corporation, the boeing company, raytheon company, and general dynamics corporation are among the largest companies in the u.s. defense industry at this time. northrop grumman competes against these and other companies for a number of programs, both large and small. intense competition and long operating cycles are both key characteristics of northrop grumman business and the defense industry. it is common in this industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, turn out to be a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under -14- table of contents northrop grumman corporation binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. the company success in the competitive defense industry depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and services, as well as its ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. it is necessary to maintain, as the company has, sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic components, and major subassemblies. in this manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success as managing internal operations. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. executive officers see part iii, item 10, for information about executive officers of the company. available information throughout this form 10-k, the company incorporates by reference information from parts of other documents filed with the securities and exchange commission (sec). the sec allows the company to disclose important information by referring to it in this manner, and you should review this information in addition to the information contained herein. the company annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and proxy statement for the annual shareholders meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through the company web site as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of such material with the sec. you can learn more about the company by reviewing the company sec filings on the company web site. the company sec reports can be accessed through the investor relations page of the company web site at www.northropgrumman.com. the sec also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding sec registrants, including northrop grumman. the public may read and copy any materials filed by the company with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. item 1a. risk factors the company financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within the company control that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. information contained within this form 10-k should be carefully considered by investors in light of the risk factors described below. n the company depends heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for a substantial portion of the company business, including programs subject to security classification restrictions on information. changes affecting this customer capacity to do business with the company or the effects of competition in the defense industry could have a material adverse effect on the company or its prospects. approximately 90 percent of the company revenues during 2006 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the u.s. government and are therefore affected by, among other things, the federal budget process. the company is a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the u.s. government and its agencies as well as foreign governments and agencies. these contracts are subject to the respective customers political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, and in the case of contracts with the u.s. government, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes, the government ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as contractor -15- table of contents northrop grumman corporation suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. the termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the u.s. government could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or prospects. in the event of termination for the government convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred subsequent to termination. the company is involved in a lawsuit concerning a contract terminated for convenience. see other matters in part i, item 3. termination resulting from the company default could expose the company to liability and have a material adverse effect on its ability to compete for contracts. in addition, a material amount of the company revenues and profits is derived from programs that are subject to security classification restrictions (restricted business), which could limit the company ability to discuss details about these programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. as a result, investors might have less insight into the company restricted business than other businesses of the company or could experience less ability to evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with restricted business. the company success in the competitive defense industry depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and services, as well as its ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. a loss of business to our competitors could have a material adverse affect on the company ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain market share. n many of the company contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within the company control. failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect the company profitability and future prospects. the company designs, develops and manufactures technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and components could prevent the company from achieving contractual requirements. in addition, the company products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems which could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure, problems with quality, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services, and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen liabilities, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments previously received by the company. certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period of time. under such terms, the company could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and/or collected. the company has not experienced any material losses in the last decade in connection with contract performance incentive provisions. however, if the company were to experience launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the future, such events could have a material adverse impact on the company financial position or results of operations. -16- table of contents northrop grumman corporation n contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes the company to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that cannot be billed to customers are incurred. this cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical challenges or if initial estimates used for calculating the contract price were incorrect. the cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. reasons for cost growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. a significant change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material effect on the company consolidated financial position or results of operations. due to their nature, fixed-price contracts inherently have more risk than flexibly priced contracts and therefore generally carry higher profit margins. approximately 34 percent of the company annual revenues are derived from fixed-price contracts see contracts in part ii, item 7. flexibly priced contracts may carry risk to the extent of their specific contract terms and conditions relating to performance award fees and negative performance incentives. the company typically enters into fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably estimated based on experience. in addition, certain contracts other than fixed-price contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. should the terms specified in those contracts not be met, then profitability may be reduced. fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of the company fixed-price contracts and inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. as work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are generally reduced. in addition, successful performance of fixed-price development contracts, which include production units, is subject to the company ability to control cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. while management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price development programs, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. examples of the company significant fixed-price development contracts include the f-16 block 60 combat avionics program and the mesa radar system program for the wedgetail and peace eagle contracts, both of which are performed by the electronics segment. it is also not unusual in the ships business for the company to negotiate fixed-price production follow-on contracts before the development effort has been completed and learning curves fully realized on existing flexibly priced development contracts. n the company uses estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect the company profitability and its overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of the company contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives, awards, or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a -17- table of contents northrop grumman corporation material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and performance. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. n the company operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws, regulations and restrictions, and noncompliance with these laws, regulations and restrictions could expose the company to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability and its overall financial position. the company has thousands of contracts and operations in many parts of the world subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations. prime contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government and subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including the false claims act and the international traffic in arms regulation promulgated under the arms export control act, with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all u.s. government agencies. given the company dependence on u.s. government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company. in addition, international business subjects the company to numerous u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. failure by the company or its sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of the company export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. changes in regulation or political environment may affect the company ability to conduct business in foreign markets including investment, procurement, and repatriation of earnings. the company operates in a highly regulated environment and is routinely audited by the u.s. government and others. on a regular basis, the company monitors its policies and procedures with respect to its contracts to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions and to assess compliance with all applicable government regulations. negative audit findings could result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, or suspension of payments. from time to time the company is subject to u.s. government investigations relating to its operations. government contractors that are found to have violated the law such as the false claims act or the arms export control act, or are indicted or convicted for violations of other federal laws, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, may be subject to significant fines. such convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracting for some period of time. given the company dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company. n the company business is subject to disruption caused by issues with its suppliers, subcontractors, workforce, natural disasters and other factors that could adversely affect the company profitability and its overall financial position. the company may be affected by delivery or performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors, as well as other factors that may cause operating results to be adversely affected. changes in inventory requirements or other production cost increases may also have a negative effect on the company consolidated results of operations. performance failures by a subcontractor of the company or difficulty in maintaining complete alignment of the subcontractor obligations with the company prime contract obligations may adversely affect the company ability to perform its obligations on the prime contract, which could reduce the company profitability due to damages or other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor or from the customer and could result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on the company ability to compete for future contracts. -18- table of contents northrop grumman corporation operating results are heavily dependent upon the company ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skill sets and/or security clearances. the successful negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and avoidance of organized work stoppages are also critical to the ongoing operations of the company. the company has significant operations located in regions of the u.s. where damaging storms and other natural disasters are somewhat common. while preventative measures typically help to minimize harm to the company, the damage and disruption resulting from certain storms or other natural disasters may be significant. although no assurances can be made, the company believes it can recover costs associated with natural disasters through insurance or its contracts. natural disasters such as storms and earthquakes can disrupt electrical and other power distribution networks and cause adverse effects on profitability and performance, including computer and internet operation and accessibility. computer viruses and similar harmful software programs, as well as network outages, disruptions and attacks also may have a material adverse affect on the company profitability and performance unless quarantined or otherwise prevented. n changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce the company operating income. as part of its overall strategy, the company will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful target analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchased price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounts for approximately half of the company recorded total assets. the company evaluates the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. n the company is subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against the company requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against the company operating income and materially impairing the company financial position. the size and complexity of the company business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. the company is subject to environmental claims, income tax matters and other litigation, which, if not resolved within established accruals, could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3, and critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. n pension and medical expense associated with the company retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions and future market performance of plan assets. a substantial portion of the company current and retired employee population is covered by pension and post-retirement benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon the company various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. variances from these estimates could have a material adverse affect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. -19- table of contents northrop grumman corporation n the company insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of its significant risks or its insurers may deny coverage of material losses incurred by the company, which could adversely affect the company profitability and overall financial position. primarily as a result of the major hurricanes in 2004 and 2005 (including hurricanes katrina and rita), market conditions have substantially changed, resulting in an overall reduced amount of total available coverage. the company endeavors to identify and obtain in established markets insurance agreements to cover significant risks and liabilities (including, among others, natural disasters, products liability and business interruption). not every risk or liability can be protected against by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. in some, but not all, circumstances the company may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. because of the reduction in overall available coverage referred to above, the company may have to bear substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have an adverse effect upon its consolidated results of operations and its overall consolidated financial position. additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows and, where litigation with the carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to the company may have a material adverse affect on the company consolidated results of operations. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. n current trends in u.s. government procurement may adversely affect cash flows or program profitability. the company, like others in the defense industry, is aware of a potential problem presented by strict compliance with the defense federal acquisition regulation supplement preference for enumerated specialty metals sourced domestically or from certain foreign countries. subcontractors and lower-tier suppliers have made disclosures indicating inability to comply with the rule as written, particularly for low-value parts such as washers, screws, nuts, bolts, resistors and capacitors. subject to limitations, inability to certify that all enumerated specialty metals in a product comply with sourcing requirements can lead to u.s. government customers withholding a portion of a payment on delivery or may prevent delivery altogether of materiel and products critical to national defense. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rates the company is exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed-rate long-term debt obligations, variable-rate short-term debt outstanding under the credit agreement, short-term investments, and long-term notes receivable. at december 31, 2006, substantially all borrowings were fixed-rate long-term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. the company sensitivity to a 1 percent change in interest rates is tied to its $2 billion credit agreement, which had no balance outstanding at december 31, 2006, or 2005. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors 12 -1- table of contents northrop grumman corporation organization the company is aligned into seven reportable segments categorized into four primary businesses. the mission systems, information technology, and technical services segments are presented as information services. the integrated systems and space technology segments are presented as aerospace. the electronics and ships segments are each presented as separate businesses. newport news and ship systems are aggregated and reported as the ships business in accordance with the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards no. 131 disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information. the company, from time to time, acquires or disposes of businesses, and realigns contracts, programs or business areas among and within its operating segments that possess similar customers, expertise, and capabilities. these realignments are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance development and delivery of products and services. for a description of material business dispositions that occurred during 2007, see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. in january 2007, certain programs and business areas were transferred among information technology, mission systems, space technology, and technical services. the business descriptions below and operating results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes made through december 31, 2007. subsequent realignments in january 2008, the newport news and ship systems sectors were realigned into a single segment called northrop grumman shipbuilding to enable the company to more effectively utilize its shipbuilding assets and deploy its talented shipbuilders, processes, technologies, production facilities and planned capital investment to meet customer needs. this realignment had no impact on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or segment reporting. also in january 2008, the company announced the transfer of certain programs and assets from the mission systems segment to the space technology segment, effective july 1, 2008. this transfer will allow mission systems to focus on the rapidly growing command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (c4isr) business, and the missiles business will be an integrated element of the company aerospace business growth strategy. in addition, certain electronics businesses were transferred to mission systems effective january 2008. the transfer of these businesses is not expected to have a material effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. these subsequent realignments have not been reflected in any of the accompanying financial information. information services mission systems the mission systems segment, headquartered in reston, virginia, is a leading global systems integrator of complex, mission-enabling systems for government, military, and commercial customers. the segment consists of three areas of business: command, control and communications (c3); intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (isr); and missile systems. command, control and communications c3 supports the dod, aerospace prime contractors, and other customers. offerings include operational and tactical command and control systems; communications solutions and network management; tactical data link communications products and integration; network services; software defined radios; decision support and management information systems; system engineering and integration; land forces and global combat support; intelligence support to operations, mission planning and management applications; critical infrastructure security and force protection; logistics automation; robotic systems; homeland security solutions; naval systems engineering support and integration; and command centers integration. intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance isr supports the intelligence community, the dod, and other federal agencies. offerings include large systems integration; net-centric signals intelligence; airborne reconnaissance; payload control; tasking and collection; satellite ground stations; data collection and storage; information analysis and knowledge integration; computer network operations; information operations and information assurance; analysis and visualization tools; environmental and weather systems; special intelligence; and sustainment services. -2- table of contents northrop grumman corporation missile systems missile systems supports the air force intercontinental ballistic missile (icbm) program, the u.s. ballistic missile defense system, the missile defense integration operations center, and the kinetic energy interceptors (kei) program in support of the u.s. air force, the u.s. army, the missile defense agency, and other aerospace prime contractors. offerings include battle management, command, control, communications (bmc3) and fire control systems; air and missile system engineering and integration; modeling and simulation; program management; system test and integration; development and deployment; missile system sustainment and modernization services; warfighter operations; and development and test activities for boost phase and midcourse intercept for the global layered missile defense system. information technology the information technology segment, headquartered in mclean, virginia, consists of four areas of business: intelligence; civilian agencies; commercial, state local; and defense. intelligence intelligence provides information technology (it) systems, services and solutions primarily to the u.s. intelligence community, which includes customers in national agencies, defense, homeland security, and other agencies at the federal, state and local level. this business area also collaborates with other information technology business areas by providing specialized technology solutions in areas such as information security, secure wireless communications, secure cross agency information-sharing and geospatial information systems. services and solutions span the entire mission life cycle from requirements and technology development through processing and data analysis to information delivery. civilian agencies civilian agencies provides it systems, services and solutions primarily for federal civilian agencies, as well as government and commercial healthcare customers. civilian agencies customers include the departments of homeland security, treasury, justice, transportation, state, interior, and the u.s. postal service. homeland security offerings include secure networking, criminal justice systems, and identity management. healthcare customers include the department of health and human services, dod health affairs, the centers for disease control and prevention, the food and drug administration, the department of veterans affairs, and a number of pharmaceutical manufacturers. healthcare offerings include enterprise architecture, systems integration, infrastructure management, document management, human capital management, case management, and specialized health it solutions in electronic medical records pertaining to public health, life sciences, disease surveillance, benefits, and clinical trials research. commercial, state local commercial, state local provides it systems, services and solutions primarily for state and local agencies and commercial customers. the commercial business centers on managed it services both as a prime contractor and partner in addition to specialized solutions that address specific business needs. the state and local focus includes public safety, secure wireless solutions, human services, and managed it services. this business area provides it outsourcing services on a service level agreement basis, where contractual terms are based on infrastructure volume and service levels. services include management of data centers, networks, desktops, storage, security, help desk, and applications. specialized state and local offerings include systems for police/fire/medical emergency dispatch, public safety command centers, biometric identification, and human services. defense defense provides it systems, services and solutions to all elements of the dod including the air force, navy, army, marines, the office of the secretary of defense, and the unified combatant commands. offerings include business applications and systems integration related to human capital and business management, logistics, transportation, supply chain, and combat systems support. other offerings consist of information technology and network infrastructures, including modernization, architecture, design and capacity modeling. defense also provides solutions and services for defense technology laboratories and research and development centers, system program offices, operational commands, education and training commands, test centers, and other defense agencies. -3- table of contents northrop grumman corporation technical services the technical services segment, headquartered in herndon, virginia, provides infrastructure management and maintenance, training and preparedness, and logistics and life cycle management in a wide array of operating environments. the segment consists of three areas of business: systems support; training and simulation; and life cycle optimization and engineering. systems support systems support provides infrastructure and base operations management, including base support and civil engineering work, military aerial and ground range operations, support functions which include space launch services, construction, combat vehicle maintenance, protective and emergency services, and range-sensor-instrumentation operations. primary customers include the department of energy, the dod, the national aeronautics and space administration (nasa), the department of homeland security, and the u.s. intelligence community, in both domestic and international locations. training and simulation training and simulation provides realistic and comprehensive training to senior military leaders and peacekeeping forces, designs and develops future conflict training scenarios, and provides u.s. warfighters and international allies with live, virtual, and constructive training programs. this business area also offers diverse training applications ranging from battle command to professional military education. primary customers include the dod, department of state and department of homeland security. life cycle optimization and engineering life cycle optimization and engineering provides complete life cycle product support and weapons system sustainment. this business area is focused on providing performance based logistical support to the warfighter including supply chain management services, warehousing and inventory transportation, field services and mobilization, sustaining engineering, maintenance, repair and overhaul supplies, and on-going weapon maintenance and technical assistance. the group specializes in rebuilding essential parts and assemblies. primary customers include the dod as well as international military and commercial customers. aerospace integrated systems the integrated systems segment, headquartered in el segundo, california, designs, develops, produces, and supports fully missionized integrated systems and subsystems in the areas of battlespace awareness, command and control systems, integrated combat systems, and airborne ground surveillance. the segment is organized into the following areas of business: integrated systems western region (iswr) and integrated systems eastern region (iser). integrated systems western region the principal manned vehicle programs in iswr are subcontractor work on the f/a-18 and f-35 programs and prime contract work on the b-2 program and the multi-platform radar technology insertion program (mp-rtip). for the f/a-18, iswr is responsible for the full integration of the center and aft fuselage and vertical tail sections and associated subsystems. for the f-35, iswr is responsible for the detailed design and integration and production of the center fuselage and weapons bay, systems engineering, mission system software, autonomic logistics and global sustainment, ground and flight test support, signature/low observables development, and support of modeling and simulation activities. iswr is the prime systems integration contractor for the mp-rtip, which will provide advanced radar capabilities for the global hawk uav and potential future wide area surveillance (was) platform. iswr is working on a radar and avionics upgrade program for the b-2 bomber and is a prime integrator for all logistics support activities including program depot maintenance. the principal unmanned vehicle programs at iswr are the global hawk, the naval unmanned combat air system (n-ucas), aerial targets, and the fire scout. iswr is the prime contractor for these product lines with the exception of the army version of fire scout for future combat systems (fcs). the global hawk is a high altitude long endurance unmanned aerial reconnaissance system. n-ucas is a development/demonstration program that will design, build and test two demonstration vehicles that will conduct a carrier demonstration. the technology demonstrations are to show carrier control area operations, catapult launch, and an arrested -4- table of contents northrop grumman corporation landing of a low observable unmanned aerial combat vehicle. aerial targets has two primary models, the bqm-74 and the bqm-34 and is the prime contractor on multiple domestic and international contracts. fire scout is a vertical takeoff and landing tactical uav system in development and consists of two versions the vertical takeoff and landing unmanned air vehicle (vtuav) for the u.s. navy and the fcs class iv uav for the u.s. army. integrated systems eastern region airborne early warning and battle management command control-navy (aew bmc2) aew bmc2 principal products include the e-2c hawkeye and e-2d advanced hawkeye aircraft (currently in the system development and demonstration (sdd) phase of development and pilot production). the hawkeye is the u.s. navy airborne battle management command and control mission system platform providing airborne early warning detection, identification, tracking, targeting, and communication capabilities. the company is currently performing on a follow-on multi-year contract for eight e-2c aircraft to be delivered to the u.s. navy through 2009 (two aircraft delivered in 2006 and two aircraft delivered in 2007). the company is developing the next generation capability including radar, mission computer, vehicle, and other system enhancements called the e-2d advanced hawkeye under an sdd contract with the u.s. navy. pilot production of three aircraft was authorized in 2007 and long lead funding for the first lot of low rate initial production (three aircraft) was received in december 2007. intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance battle management command control air force (isr bmc2-af) isr bmc2-af is the prime contractor on the joint surveillance target attack radar system (joint stars) program. joint stars detects, locates, classifies, tracks, and targets potentially hostile ground movement in all weather conditions. it is designed to operate around the clock in constant communication through secure data links with u.s. air force command posts, u.s. army mobile ground stations, or centers for military analysis far from the point of conflict. the joint stars program is currently developing performance upgrades and retrofits under an ongoing systems improvement program. fleet sustainment is performed through the total systems support contract currently in its eighth fiscal year. in february 2007, an initial non-recurring contract was awarded to re-engine the fleet of nineteen aircraft with modern, more reliable, powerful and fuel efficient engines. follow-on nonrecurring efforts and recurring contract awards are expected in 2008. following the customer decision in 2007 not to fund the e-10a technology demonstration development program, a one-year mission execution program study contract was awarded that will leverage the e-10a analysis and design concepts for the joint stars platform. electronic support attack solutions (es as) es as principal products include the ea-6b (prowler) and the electronic attack system for the ea-18g aircraft. the prowler is currently the armed services only offensive tactical radar jamming aircraft. es as has developed the next generation mission system for this aircraft under the increased capacity (icap) iii contract and has completed the final test and evaluation phase. the company completed the low-rate initial production for icap iii kits during 2006, and was awarded a follow-on contract for icap iii kits spares, with deliveries commencing in 2007. in addition, the company is performing on a contract to incorporate the icap iii mission system into an f/a-18 platform, designated the ea-18g. integrated systems is the principal subcontractor to boeing for this program, which is currently in the sdd phase. northrop grumman has been authorized to begin production of low rate initial production units. maritime tactical systems the principal programs include the littoral combat ship mission package integration contract and mine counter measures contracts with multiple customers that focus on detecting and neutralizing in-land, coastal and water surface/subsurface mines. space technology the space technology segment, headquartered in redondo beach, california, develops a broad range of systems at the leading edge of space, defense, and electronics technology. the segment provides products primarily to the u.s. government that are critical to the nation security and leadership in science and technology. in october 2007, space technology realigned its organizational structure to better position itself with its customer base for -5- table of contents northrop grumman corporation future growth. products and services are grouped into the following business areas: civil systems; military systems; national systems; and technology emerging systems. civil systems the civil systems business area produces and integrates space-based systems, instruments, and services primarily for nasa, the national oceanic and atmospheric administration, and other governmental agencies. these systems are primarily used for space science, earth observation and environmental monitoring, and exploration missions. a variety of systems and services are provided, including mission and system engineering services, satellite and instrument systems, mission operations, and propulsion systems. major programs include national polar-orbiting operational environmental satellite system (npoess), the james webb space telescope (jwst), and the legacy chandra space telescope and earth observing system programs. military systems military systems produces and integrates spiral development programs and operational programs associated with the u.s. air force, missile defense agency, and other military customers. responsibilities include study design, build integration, launch, and operations of major u.s. military space systems. programs include the advanced extremely high frequency (aehf) payload, transformational satellite (tsat) communications system, space tracking and surveillance system (stss), and the communication payload for the legacy milstar program, currently in operation. the defense support program (dsp) is also part of this business area, and has been monitoring ballistic missile launches for the u.s. air force for decades. national systems the national systems business area gives the nation monitoring systems a global reach and enhanced national security. addressing requirements in space-based intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems, national systems provides mission and system engineering, satellite systems, and mission operations. customers are predominantly restricted, as are the major programs. technology emerging systems technology emerging systems consists of government funded research and development contracts in support of the three business areas above. in addition, it includes the airborne laser (abl), other directed energy programs and advanced concepts programs. electronics the electronics segment, headquartered in linthicum, maryland, designs, develops, produces, integrates, and supports high performance sensors, intelligence processing, and navigation systems operating in all environments from undersea to outer space and cyberspace. it also develops, produces, integrates, and supports power, power control, and ship control systems for commercial and naval ships in domestic and international markets. in select markets it performs as a prime contractor, integrating multiple subsystems to provide complete systems to meet customers solution requirements. the segment is composed of five areas of business: aerospace systems; defensive systems; government systems; naval marine systems; and navigation systems. aerospace systems aerospace systems provides sensors, sensor processing, integrated sensor suites, and radar countermeasure systems for military surveillance and precision-strike; missile tracking and warning; space satellite applications; and radio frequency electronic warfare. fire control radars include systems for the f-16, f-22, f-35 and b-1b. navigation radars include commercial and military systems for transport and cargo aircraft. surveillance products include the airborne warning and control system (awacs) radar, the 737 multi-role electronically scanned array (mesa) radar, the multi-platform radar technology insertion program (mp-rtip, the ship-board cobra judy replacement (cjr) radar, and multiple payloads on the p-8a. space satellite products include the space-based infrared surveillance (sbirs) program, payloads for restricted programs, the defense meteorological satellite program (dmsp), npoess, and the dsp. radio frequency electronic warfare products include radar warning receivers, self-protection jammers, and integrated electronic warfare systems for aircraft such as the ea-6b, ea-18, f-16 and f-15. defensive systems defensive systems provides systems that support combat aviation by protecting aircraft and helicopters from attack, by providing capabilities for precise targeting and tactical surveillance, by improving mission availability through automated test systems and by improving mission skills through advanced simulation systems. it also provides systems that support land forces. aircraft and helicopter protection systems include -6- table of contents northrop grumman corporation infrared detection and countermeasures systems to defeat shoulder-launched and infrared-guided missiles. targeting systems include lasers for target designation and image processing and sensor applications, and the litening pod system to detect and designate targets for engagement by precision weapons in aircraft such as the f-16 and f/a-18. test systems include systems to test electronic components of combat aircraft on the flight line and in repair facilities. land force systems include precision guided munitions for artillery and uav delivery, night vision goggles, laser designators, weapon sights, tactical radars for warning of missile and artillery attack, and fire control radars for helicopters. defensive systems also provides standard simulators for use on test ranges and training facilities to emulate threats of potential adversaries. government systems government systems provides products and services to meet the needs of governments for improvements in the effectiveness of their civil and military infrastructure and of their combat and counter-terrorism operations. this includes systems and systems integration of products and services for postal automation, for the detection and alert of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive (cbrne) material, for homeland defense, communications, and air traffic management, and for multi-sensor processing and analysis for combat units and national agencies of data from isr systems. key programs include: advanced flat sorting machines; international sorting centers; u.s. postal service bio-detection systems; national level communications, information processing and air defense systems for international customers; unattended ground sensors; the isr distributed common ground system for the u.s. military services and national agencies; and deployed isr and persistent surveillance processing systems. naval marine systems naval and marine systems provides major subsystems and subsystem integration for sensors, sensor processing, missile launching, ship controls and power generation. it provides systems to military surface and subsurface platforms, and bridge and machinery control systems for commercial maritime applications. principal programs include: radars for navigation; radars for gun fire control and cruise missile defense; bridge management and control systems; power generation systems for aircraft carriers; power and propulsion systems for the virginia class submarine; launch systems for trident submarines and the kei program; the advanced seal delivery system mini-submarine; and unmanned semi-autonomous naval systems. navigation systems navigation systems provides advanced navigation, identification of friend or foe and avionics systems for military and commercial applications. its products are used in commercial space and aircraft; in military air, land, sea, and space systems; and in both u.s. and international markets. its subsidiaries, litef germany and northrop grumman italia, are leading european inertial sensors and systems suppliers. key programs and applications include: integrated avionics for the u.s. marine corps attack and utility helicopters and u.s. navy e-2 aircraft; military navigation and positioning systems for the f-16 fighter, f-22a fighter/attack aircraft, eurofighter, and u.s. navy mh-60 helicopter; navigation systems for commercial aircraft; navigation systems for military and civil space satellites and deep space exploration; identification of friend-or-foe transponders and interrogators; and systems for the c-17 aircraft, eurofighter and mh-60 helicopter. navigation systems also develops and produces fiber-optic acoustic systems for underwater surveillance for virginia class submarines and the an/tyq-23 multi-service mobile tactical command centers for the u.s. marine corps and u.s. air force. ships the ships segment includes the following areas of business: aircraft carriers; expeditionary warfare; surface combatants; submarines; coast guard coastal defense; fleet support; and services, commercial other. aircraft carriers ships is the nation sole industrial designer, builder, and refueler of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers. the u.s. navy newest carrier, the uss ronald reagan , was delivered to the fleet in may 2004. construction on the last carrier in the nimitz class, the george h. w. bush , continues. the bush christening occurred in the fall of 2006 and delivery to the u.s. navy is expected in late 2008. advanced design and preparation continues for the new generation carrier, ford class, which will incorporate transformational technologies that will result in manning reductions, improved war fighting capability, and a new nuclear propulsion plant design. the construction award for the first ship of the ford class, the gerald r. ford , is -7- table of contents northrop grumman corporation expected in mid 2008. the company also provides ongoing maintenance for the u.s. navy aircraft carrier fleet through overhaul, refueling, and repair work. ships is currently performing the refueling and complex overhaul of the uss carl vinson with redelivery to the u.s. navy anticipated in early 2009. planning for the uss theodore roosevelt refueling and complex overhaul began in the fall of 2006 and the ship is expected to arrive at newport news, virginia in the fall of 2009. expeditionary warfare expeditionary warfare programs include the design and construction of amphibious assault ships for the u.s. navy, including the wasp lhd 1 class and the san antonio lpd 17 class. ships is the sole provider for the lhd class of large-deck, 40,500-ton multipurpose amphibious assault ships, which serve as the centerpiece of an amphibious ready group. currently, the lhd 8 is under construction and is a significant upgrade from the preceding seven ships of its class. the design and production of the lhd 8 is a $1.9 billion program with delivery scheduled for late 2008. in 2007, the construction contract for lha 6, the first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault ships, was awarded. the ship is scheduled for delivery in 2012. ships is also the sole provider of the lpd 17 class of ships, which function as amphibious transports. the initial three ships were delivered in 2005, 2006, and 2007, and five lpd 17 ships are currently under construction. in december 2007, the construction award for the ninth ship was received. surface combatants surface combatants includes the design and construction of the arleigh burke ddg 51 class aegis guided missile destroyers, and the design of ddg 1000 (previously dd(x)), the navy future transformational surface combatant class. ships is one of two prime contractors designing and building ddg 51 class destroyers, which provide primary anti-aircraft and anti-missile ship protection for the u.s. navy fleet. four arleigh burke class destroyers are currently under construction. in 2006, ships was awarded phase iv detail design long lead construction funding for the initial ddg 1000. the contract calls for an equal split of ship detail design efforts between the company and bath iron works, a wholly owned subsidiary of general dynamics corporation. the construction award for the initial ship is anticipated in the first half of 2008. the advanced technologies developed on dd(x) phase iii are being incorporated into ddg 1000 and are anticipated to be incorporated into the next generation guided missile cruiser cg(x). submarines northrop grumman is one of only two u.s. companies capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines. in february 1997, the company and electric boat, a wholly owned subsidiary of general dynamics corporation, reached an agreement to cooperatively build virginia class nuclear attack submarines. the lead ship, uss virginia , was delivered by electric boat to the u.s. navy and commissioned into the fleet in october 2004. the uss texas was delivered by ships in the spring of 2006. the uss hawaii was delivered by electric boat in december 2006, and north carolina , the final block one ship, is expected to be delivered by ships in early 2008. electric boat and ships were awarded a construction contract in august 2003, which was subsequently modified in january 2004, for the second block of six virginia class submarines. planning and long lead material procurement is underway on all six boats of the second block; construction has begun on the first four. the construction award for the third block is expected in late 2008. coast guard coastal defense ships is a joint venture partner along with lockheed martin for the coast guard deepwater modernization program. ships has design and production responsibility for surface ships. in 2006, the ships/lockheed martin joint venture was awarded a 43 month contract extension for the deepwater program. currently, the first three national security cutters (nsc) are in construction. the initial nsc will be delivered in early 2008. fleet support ships provides after-market services, including on-going maintenance and repair work, for a wide array of naval and commercial vessels. the company has ship repair facilities in the u.s. navy largest homeports of norfolk, virginia, and san diego, california. services, commercial other under the polar tanker program, ships was under contract to produce five double-hulled tankers. these tankers each transport one million barrels of crude oil from alaska to west coast refineries and are fully compliant with the oil pollution act of 1990. the last ship under this program was delivered in mid-2006. -8- table of contents northrop grumman corporation corporate the company principal executive offices are located at 1840 century park east, los angeles, california 90067. the company telephone number is (310) 553-6262. the company home page on the internet is www.northropgrumman.com. the company makes web site content available for informational purposes, and such content is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k, unless so specified herein. summary segment financial data for a more complete understanding of the company segment financial information, see segment operating results in part ii, item 7, and note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. customers and revenue concentration the company primary customer is the u.s. government. revenue from the u.s. government accounted for approximately 90 percent of total revenues in 2007, 2006, and 2005. no other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of total revenue during any period presented. no single product or service accounted for more than 10 percent of total revenue during any period presented. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. patents the following table summarizes the number of patents the company owns or has pending as of december 31, 2007: owned pending total u.s. patents 3,572 708 4,280 foreign patents 2,464 1,767 4,231 total 6,036 2,475 8,511 patents developed while under contract with the u.s. government may be subject to use by the u.s. government. in addition the company licenses intellectual property to, and from, third parties. management believes the company ability to conduct its operations would not be materially affected by the loss of any particular intellectual property right. seasonality no material portion of the company business is considered to be seasonal. the timing of revenue recognition is based on several factors including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. see revenue recognition in part ii, item 7. raw materials the most significant raw material required by the company is steel, used primarily for shipbuilding. the company has mitigated supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with a number of steel suppliers. in addition, the company has mitigated price risk related to its steel purchases through certain contractual arrangements with the u.s. government. while the company has generally been able to obtain key raw materials required in its production processes in a timely manner, a significant delay in receipt of these supplies by the company could have a material effect on the company consolidated results of operations. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. government regulation the company business is affected by numerous laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. certain programs with the u.s. government that are prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in detail are referred to as restricted in this form 10-k. the consolidated financial statements and financial -9- table of contents northrop grumman corporation information contained within this form 10-k reflect the operating results of restricted programs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (gaap). see risk factors in part i, item 1a. research and development company-sponsored research and development activities primarily include independent research and development (ir d) efforts related to government programs. ir d expenses are included in general and administrative expenses and are allocated to u.s. government contracts. company-sponsored research and development expenses totaled $537 million, $572 million, and $536 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. expenses for research and development sponsored by the customer are charged directly to the related contracts. employee relations the company believes that it maintains good relations with its 122,600 employees, of which approximately 17 percent are covered by 32 collective bargaining agreements. the company expects to re-negotiate nine of its collective bargaining agreements in 2008. it is not expected that the results of these negotiations will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. environmental matters federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the environment affect the company manufacturing operations. the company has provided for the estimated cost to complete environmental remediation where the company has determined it is probable that the company will incur such costs in the future to address environmental impacts at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where it has been named a potentially responsible party (prp) by the environmental protection agency or similarly designated by other environmental agencies. these estimates may change given the inherent difficulty in estimating environmental cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws, regulations, and their interpretations. in order to assess the potential impact on the company financial statements, management estimates the possible remediation costs that reasonably could be incurred by the company on a site-by-site basis. such estimates take into consideration the professional judgment of the company environmental engineers and, when necessary, consultation with outside environmental specialists. in most instances, only a range of reasonably possible costs can be estimated. however, in the determination of accruals, the most probable amount is used when determinable, and the minimum is used when no single amount is more probable. the company records accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting period in which the company responsibility is established and the costs can be reasonably estimated. the company does not anticipate and record insurance recoveries before it has determined that collection is probable. management estimates that at december 31, 2007, the range of reasonably possible future costs for environmental remediation sites is $186 million to $285 million, of which $223 million is accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position. environmental accruals are recorded on an undiscounted basis. at sites involving multiple parties, the company provides environmental accruals based upon its expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in currently operating facilities. in addition, should other prps not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, the company may have to incur costs in addition to those already estimated and accrued, which could have a material effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the company has made the investments it believes necessary in order to comply with environmental laws. -10- table of contents northrop grumman corporation competitive conditions northrop grumman, along with lockheed martin corporation, the boeing company, raytheon company, and general dynamics corporation are among the largest companies in the u.s. defense industry at this time. northrop grumman competes against these and other companies for a number of programs, both large and small. intense competition and long operating cycles are both key characteristics of northrop grumman business and the defense industry. it is common in this industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, turn out to be a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. the company success in the competitive defense industry depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and services, as well as its ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. it is necessary to maintain, as the company has, sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic components, and major subassemblies. in this manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success as managing internal operations. similarly, there is intense competition among many companies in the information and services markets which is generally more labor intensive with competitive margin rates over contract periods of shorter duration. competitors in the information and services markets include the defense industry participants mentioned above as well as many other large and small entities with expertise in various specialized areas. the company ability to successfully compete in the information and services markets depends on a number of factors; most important is the capability to deploy skilled professionals, many requiring security clearances, at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of these markets. accordingly, various workforce initiatives are in place to ensure the company is successful in attracting, developing and retaining sufficient resources to maintain or improve its competitive position within these markets. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. executive officers see part iii, item 10, for information about executive officers of the company. available information throughout this form 10-k, the company incorporates by reference information from parts of other documents filed with the securities and exchange commission (sec). the sec allows the company to disclose important information by referring to it in this manner, and you should review this information in addition to the information contained herein. the company annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and proxy statement for the annual shareholders meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through the company web site as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of such material with the sec. you can learn more about the company by reviewing the company sec filings on the company web site. the company sec reports can be accessed through the investor relations page of the company web site at www.northropgrumman.com. the sec also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding sec registrants, including northrop grumman. the public may read and copy any materials filed by the company with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. -11- table of contents northrop grumman corporation item 1a. risk factors the company consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within the company control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. information contained within this form 10-k should be carefully considered by investors in light of the risk factors described below. n the company depends heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for a substantial portion of the company business, including programs subject to security classification restrictions on information. changes affecting this customer capacity to do business with the company or the effects of competition in the defense industry could have a material adverse effect on the company or its prospects. approximately 90 percent of the company revenues during 2007 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the u.s. government and are therefore affected by, among other things, the federal budget process. the company is a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the u.s. government and its agencies as well as foreign governments and agencies. these contracts are subject to the respective customers political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, and in the case of contracts with the u.s. government, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes, the u.s. government ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. the termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the u.s. government could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or prospects. in the event of termination for the government convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred. the company is involved as a plaintiff in a lawsuit concerning a contract terminated for convenience. see other matters in part i, item 3. termination resulting from the company default could expose the company to liability and have a material adverse effect on its ability to compete for contracts. in addition, a material amount of the company revenues and profits is derived from programs that are subject to security classification restrictions (restricted business), which could limit the company ability to discuss details about these programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. as a result, investors might have less insight into the company restricted business than other businesses of the company or could experience less ability to evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with restricted business. the company success in the competitive defense industry depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and services, as well as its ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. a loss of business to the company competitors could have a material adverse affect on the company ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain market share. n many of the company contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within the company control. failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect the company profitability and future prospects. the company designs, develops and manufactures technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by its customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and components could prevent the company from achieving contractual requirements. -12- table of contents northrop grumman corporation in addition, the company products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems which could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure, problems with quality, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services, and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments previously received by the company. certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period of time. under such terms, the company could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and/or collected. the company has not experienced any material losses in the last decade in connection with such contract performance incentive provisions. however, if the company were to experience launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the future, such events could have a material adverse impact on the company consolidated financial position or results of operations. n contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes the company to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that cannot be billed to customers are incurred. this cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical challenges or if initial estimates used for calculating the contract price were incorrect. the cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. reasons for cost growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. a significant change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material effect on the company consolidated financial position or results of operations. due to their nature, fixed-price contracts inherently have more risk than flexibly priced contracts and therefore generally carry higher profit margins. approximately 30 percent of the company annual revenues are derived from fixed-price contracts see contracts in part ii, item 7. flexibly priced contracts may carry risk to the extent of their specific contract terms and conditions relating to performance award fees, including cost sharing agreements, and negative performance incentives. the company typically enters into fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably estimated based on experience. in addition, certain contracts other than fixed-price contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. should the terms specified in those contracts not be met, then profitability may be reduced. fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of the company fixed-price contracts and inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. as work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are generally reduced. in addition, successful performance of fixed-price development contracts which include production units is subject to the company ability to control cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. while management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price development contracts, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. examples of the company significant fixed-price development contracts include the f-16 block 60 combat avionics program and the mesa radar system program for the wedgetail and peace eagle contracts, both of which are performed by the electronics segment. it is also not unusual in the ships business for the company to negotiate fixed-price -13- table of contents northrop grumman corporation production follow-on contracts before the development effort has been completed and learning curves fully realized on existing flexibly priced development contracts. n the company uses estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect the company profitability and its overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of the company contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives, awards, or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and performance. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. n the company operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws, regulations and restrictions, and noncompliance with these laws, regulations and restrictions could expose the company to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability and its overall financial position. the company has thousands of contracts and operations in many parts of the world subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations. prime contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government and subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including the false claims act and the international traffic in arms regulation promulgated under the arms export control act, with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all u.s. government agencies. given the company dependence on u.s. government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company. in addition, international business subjects the company to numerous u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. failure by the company or its sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of the company export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. changes in regulation or political environment may affect the company ability to conduct business in foreign markets including investment, procurement, and repatriation of earnings. the company operates in a highly regulated environment and is routinely audited by the u.s. government and others. on a regular basis, the company monitors its policies and procedures with respect to its contracts to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions and to assess compliance with all applicable government regulations. negative audit findings could result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, or suspension of payments. from time to time the company is subject to u.s. government investigations relating to its operations. government contractors that are found to have violated the law such as the false claims act or the arms export control act, or are indicted or convicted for violations of other federal laws, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, may be subject to significant fines. such convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government -14- table of contents northrop grumman corporation contracting for some period of time. given the company dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company. n the company business is subject to disruption caused by issues with its suppliers, subcontractors, workforce, natural disasters and other factors that could adversely affect the company profitability and its overall financial position. the company may be affected by delivery or performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors, as well as other factors that may cause operating results to be adversely affected. changes in inventory requirements or other production cost increases may also have a negative effect on the company consolidated financial position or results of operations. performance failures by a subcontractor of the company or difficulty in maintaining complete alignment of the subcontractor obligations with the company prime contract obligations may adversely affect the company ability to perform its obligations on the prime contract, which could reduce the company profitability due to damages or other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor or from the customer and could result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on the company ability to compete for future contracts. operating results are heavily dependent upon the company ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skill sets and/or security clearances. the successful negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and avoidance of organized work stoppages are also critical to the ongoing operations of the company. the company has significant operations located in regions of the u.s. that may be exposed to damaging storms and other natural disasters. while preventative measures typically help to minimize harm to the company, the damage and disruption resulting from certain storms or other natural disasters may be significant. although no assurances can be made, the company believes it can recover costs associated with natural disasters through insurance or its contracts. natural disasters such as storms and earthquakes can disrupt electrical and other power distribution networks and cause adverse effects on profitability and performance, including computer and internet operation and accessibility. computer viruses and similar harmful software programs, as well as network outages, disruptions and attacks also may have a material adverse effect on the company profitability and performance unless quarantined or otherwise prevented. n changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce the company operating income. as part of its overall strategy, the company will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful target analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounts for approximately half of the company recorded total assets. the company evaluates goodwill amounts for impairment annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a significant decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. -15- table of contents northrop grumman corporation n the company is subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against the company requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against the company operating income and materially impairing the company financial position. the size and complexity of the company business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. the company is subject to environmental claims, income tax matters and other litigation, which, if not resolved within established accruals, could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3, and critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. n pension and medical expense associated with the company retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions and future market performance of plan assets. a substantial portion of the company current and retired employee population is covered by pension and post-retirement benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon the company various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. variances from these estimates could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. n the company insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of its significant risks or its insurers may deny coverage of material losses incurred by the company, which could adversely affect the company profitability and overall financial position. the company endeavors to identify and obtain in established markets insurance agreements to cover significant risks and liabilities (including, among others, natural disasters, product liability and business interruption). not every risk or liability can be protected against by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. in some, but not all, circumstances the company may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. because of the limitations in overall available coverage referred to above, the company may have to bear substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have an adverse effect upon its consolidated results of operations and its overall consolidated financial position. additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows and, where litigation with the carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to the company may have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated results of operations. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. n current trends in u.s. government procurement may adversely affect cash flows or program profitability. the company, like others in the defense industry, is aware of a potential problem presented by strict compliance with the defense federal acquisition regulation supplement preference for enumerated specialty metals sourced domestically or from certain foreign countries. subcontractors and lower-tier suppliers have made disclosures indicating inability to comply with the rule as written. subject to limitations, inability to certify that all enumerated specialty metals in a product comply with sourcing requirements can lead to u.s. government customers withholding a portion of a payment on delivery or may prevent delivery altogether of materiel and products critical to national defense. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rates the company is exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed-rate long-term debt obligations, variable-rate short-term borrowings under the credit agreement, short-term investments, and long-term notes receivable. at december 31, 2007, substantially all outstanding borrowings were fixed-rate long-term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. the company has a modest exposure to interest rate risk resulting from two interest rate swap agreements described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors 13 organization on december 31, 2008, the company was aligned into seven reporting segments categorized into four primary businesses. the mission systems, information technology, and technical services segments are presented as information services. the integrated systems and space technology segments are presented as aerospace. the electronics and shipbuilding segments are each presented as separate businesses. the company, from time to time, acquires or disposes of businesses, and realigns contracts, programs or business areas among and within its operating segments that possess similar customers, expertise, and capabilities. internal realignments are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance development and delivery of -1- table of contents northrop grumman corporation products and services. the operating results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes made through december 31, 2008. during the second quarter of 2008, the company transferred certain programs and assets from the missiles business in the mission systems segment to the space technology segment. this transfer allows mission systems to focus on the rapidly growing command, control, communications, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (c3isr) business. the missiles business will be an integrated element of the company aerospace business growth strategy. in january 2008, the newport news and ship systems businesses were realigned into a single operating segment called northrop grumman shipbuilding. previously, these businesses were separate operating segments which were aggregated into a single reporting segment for financial reporting purposes. in addition, certain electronics businesses were transferred to mission systems during the first quarter of 2008. subsequent realignments in january 2009, the company streamlined its organizational structure by reducing the number of reporting segments from seven to five. the five segments are aerospace systems, which combines the former integrated systems and space technology segments; electronic systems; information systems, which combines the former information technology and mission systems segments; shipbuilding and technical services. the creation of the aerospace systems and information systems segments strengthens alignment with customers, improves the company ability to execute on programs and win new business, and enhances cost competitiveness. this subsequent realignment is not reflected in any of the accompanying financial information. information services mission systems the mission systems segment, headquartered in reston, virginia, is a leading global systems integrator of complex, mission-enabling systems for government, military, and commercial customers. products and services are focused on the fields of command, control, communications, computers and intelligence (c4i), missile and air defense, airborne reconnaissance, intelligence management and processing, and decision support systems. the segment consists of two areas of business: command, control and communications (c3); and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (isr). command, control and communications c3 supports the dod, aerospace prime contractors, and other customers. offerings include operational and tactical command and control systems; communications solutions and network management; tactical data link communications products and integration; network services; software defined radios; decision support and management information systems; system engineering and integration; land forces and global combat support; intelligence support to operations, mission planning and management applications; critical infrastructure security and force protection; logistics automation; robotic systems; homeland security solutions; naval systems engineering support and integration; command centers integration; and missile defense battle management and fire control systems. intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance isr supports the intelligence community, the dod, and other federal agencies. offerings include large systems integration; net-centric signals intelligence; airborne reconnaissance; payload control; sensor tasking and data collection; satellite ground stations; data collection and storage; information analysis and knowledge integration; computer network operations; information operations and information assurance; analysis and visualization tools; environmental and weather systems; special intelligence; and sustainment services. information technology the information technology segment, headquartered in mclean, virginia, is a premier provider of information technology (it) systems engineering and systems integration for the dod, national intelligence, federal, civilian, state and local agencies, and commercial customers. the segment consists of four areas of business: intelligence; civilian agencies; commercial, state local; and defense. -2- table of contents northrop grumman corporation intelligence intelligence provides it systems, services and solutions primarily to the u.s. intelligence community, which includes customers in national agencies, dod, homeland security, and other agencies at the federal, state and local level. this business area also collaborates with other information technology business areas by providing specialized technology solutions in areas such as information security, secure wireless communications, secure cross agency information-sharing and geospatial information systems. services and solutions span the entire mission life cycle from requirements and technology development through processing and data analysis to information delivery. civilian agencies civilian agencies provides it systems, services and solutions primarily for federal civilian agencies, as well as government and commercial healthcare customers. civilian agencies customers include the departments of homeland security, treasury, justice, transportation, state, interior, and the u.s. postal service. homeland security offerings include secure networking, criminal justice systems, and identity management. healthcare customers include the department of health and human services, dod health affairs, the centers for disease control and prevention, the food and drug administration, the department of veterans affairs, and a number of pharmaceutical manufacturers. healthcare offerings include enterprise architecture, systems integration, infrastructure management, document management, human capital management, case management, and specialized health it solutions in electronic medical records pertaining to public health, bio-surveillance, benefits, and clinical research. commercial, state local commercial, state local provides it systems, services and solutions primarily for state and local agencies and commercial customers. the commercial business centers on managed it services both as a prime contractor and partner in addition to specialized solutions that address specific business needs. the state and local focus includes public safety, secure wireless solutions, human services, and managed it services. this business area provides it outsourcing services on a service level agreement basis, where contractual terms are based on infrastructure volume and service levels. services include management of data centers, networks, desktops, storage, security, help desk, and applications. specialized state and local offerings include systems for police/fire/medical emergency dispatch, public safety command centers, biometric identification, and human services. defense defense provides it systems, services and solutions to all elements of the dod including the air force, navy, army, marines, the office of the secretary of defense, and the unified combatant commands. offerings include business applications and systems integration related to human capital and business management, logistics, transportation, supply chain, and combat systems support. other offerings consist of it and network infrastructures, including modernization, architecture, design and capacity modeling. defense also provides solutions and services for defense technology laboratories and research and development centers, system program offices, operational commands, education and training commands, test centers, and other defense agencies. technical services the technical services segment, headquartered in herndon, virginia, is a leading provider of logistics, infrastructure, and sustainment support, while also providing a wide array of technical services including training and simulation. the segment provides infrastructure management and maintenance, training and preparedness, and logistics and life cycle management in a wide array of operating environments. technical services consists of three areas of business: systems support; training and simulation; and life cycle optimization and engineering. systems support systems support provides infrastructure and base operations management, including base support and civil engineering work, military aerial and ground range operations, support functions which include space launch services, construction, combat vehicle maintenance, protective and emergency services, and range-sensor-instrumentation operations. primary customers include the department of energy, the dod, the department of homeland security, and the u.s. intelligence community, in both domestic and international locations. training and simulation training and simulation provides realistic and comprehensive training to senior military leaders and peacekeeping forces, designs and develops future conflict training scenarios, and provides -3- table of contents northrop grumman corporation u.s. warfighters and international allies with live, virtual, and constructive training programs. this business area also offers diverse training applications ranging from battle command to professional military education. primary customers include the dod, department of state and department of homeland security. life cycle optimization and engineering life cycle optimization and engineering provides complete life cycle product support and weapons system sustainment. this business area is focused on providing performance based logistical support to the warfighter including supply chain management services, warehousing and inventory transportation, field services and mobilization, sustaining engineering, maintenance, repair and overhaul supplies, and on-going weapon maintenance and technical assistance. the group specializes in rebuilding essential parts and assemblies. primary customers include the dod as well as international military and commercial customers. aerospace integrated systems the integrated systems segment, headquartered in el segundo, california, is a leader in the design, development, and production of airborne early warning, electronic warfare and surveillance systems, and battlefield management systems, as well as manned and unmanned tactical and strike systems. the segment designs, develops, produces, and supports fully missionized integrated systems and subsystems in the areas of battlespace awareness, command and control systems, integrated combat systems, and airborne ground surveillance. integrated systems is involved in several manned vehicle programs such as subcontractor work on the f/a-18 and f-35 programs and prime contract work on the b-2 program and the multi-platform radar technology insertion program (mp-rtip). for the f/a-18, integrated systems is responsible for the full integration of the center and aft fuselage and vertical tail sections and associated subsystems. for the f-35, integrated systems is responsible for the detailed design and integration and production of the center fuselage and weapons bay, systems engineering, mission system software, autonomic logistics and global sustainment, ground and flight test support, signature/low observables development, and support of modeling and simulation activities. integrated systems is the prime systems integration contractor for the mp-rtip, which will provide advanced radar capabilities for the global hawk unmanned aerial vehicle (uav). integrated systems is working on a radar and avionics upgrade program for the b-2 bomber and is a prime integrator for all logistics support activities including program depot maintenance. integrated systems is also a leader in unmanned vehicle programs such as the global hawk, the unmanned combat air system carrier demonstration (ucas-d), aerial targets, and the fire scout. integrated systems is the prime contractor for these product lines with the exception of the army version of fire scout for future combat systems (fcs). the global hawk is a high altitude long endurance unmanned aerial reconnaissance system. ucas-d is a development/demonstration program that will design, build and test two demonstration vehicles that will conduct a carrier demonstration. the technology demonstrations are to show carrier control area operations, catapult launch, and an arrested landing of a low observable unmanned aerial combat vehicle. aerial targets has two primary models, the bqm-74 and the bqm-34 and is the prime contractor on multiple domestic and international contracts. fire scout is a vertical takeoff and landing tactical uav system in development and consists of two versions the vertical takeoff and landing unmanned air vehicle (vtuav) for the u.s. navy and the fcs class iv uav for the u.s. army. the e-2 hawkeye is the u.s. navy airborne battle management command and control mission system platform providing airborne early warning detection, identification, tracking, targeting, and communication capabilities. the company is currently performing on a follow-on multi-year contract for eight e-2c aircraft to be delivered to the u.s. navy through 2009 (two aircraft were delivered in each of 2006, 2007, and 2008). the company is also developing the next generation capability including radar, mission computer, vehicle, and other system enhancements called the e-2d advanced hawkeye under a system design and development (sdd) contract with the u.s. navy. pilot production of three aircraft was authorized in 2007 and long-lead funding for the first lot of low rate initial production, consisting of two aircraft, was received in december 2007. -4- table of contents northrop grumman corporation joint stars (joint surveillance target attack radar system) detects, locates, classifies, tracks, and targets potentially hostile ground movement in all weather conditions. it is designed to operate around the clock in constant communication through secure data links with u.s. air force command posts, u.s. army mobile ground stations, or centers for military analysis far from the point of conflict. the joint stars fleet has flown for more than 40,000 hours for operation iraqi freedom over the last 6 years. the program is currently developing system and airframe performance upgrades under an ongoing systems improvement program contract, including improvements in surveillance systems and sensor processing, battlement management capability, interoperability, and communication suite. fleet sustainment is performed by northrop grumman through the total systems support responsibility contract, currently in its ninth year of performance, with a contract term that extends through 2021. in 2007, an initial non-recurring contract was awarded to design and re-engine the joint stars fleet with more reliable, powerful and fuel efficient engines. follow-on nonrecurring and initial recurring shipsets were awarded in may 2008. in december 2008, the program re-engined test aircraft successfully made its maiden flight. risk reduction contracts for an upcoming joint stars radar modernization program were initiated in 2008. the bams (broad area maritime surveillance) unmanned aircraft system sdd contract was awarded in 2008 and leverages the global hawk platform but integrates maritime requirements including sensors, communications, mission control systems and platform enhancements to provide a persistent maritime intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (isr) data collection and dissemination capability to the u.s. navy. the bams unmanned aircraft system contract includes options for low rate initial production and for furnishing the bams unmanned aircraft system to australia. the ea-6b prowler is currently the armed services primary offensive tactical radar jamming aircraft. integrated systems has developed the next generation mission system for this aircraft under the increased capacity (icap) iii contract and has completed the final test and evaluation phase. the company completed the low-rate initial production for icap iii kits during 2006, and has been awarded follow-on contracts for icap iii kits spares, with deliveries through 2011. in addition, the company is performing on a contract to incorporate the icap iii mission system into an f/a-18 platform, designated the ea-18g. integrated systems is the principal subcontractor to boeing for this program, which is currently in the sdd phase. northrop grumman has been awarded contracts for low rate initial production i and ii with hardware deliveries that commenced in the second quarter of 2008. other integrated systems programs include the littoral combat ship mission package integration contract and mine counter measures contracts with multiple customers that focus on detecting and neutralizing in-land, coastal and water surface/subsurface mines. space technology the space technology segment, headquartered in redondo beach, california, develops and integrates a broad range of systems at the leading edge of space, defense, and electronics technology. the segment supplies products primarily to the u.s. government that are critical to maintaining the nation security and leadership in science and technology. space technology business areas focus on the design, development, manufacture, and integration of spacecraft systems and subsystems, electronic and communications payloads, intercontinental ballistic missile systems, and high energy laser systems and subsystems. products and services are grouped into the following areas of business: civil systems; military systems; missile systems; national systems; and technology emerging systems (technology). civil systems the civil systems business area produces and integrates space-based systems, instruments, and services primarily for the national aeronautics and space administration (nasa), the national oceanic and atmospheric administration, and other governmental agencies. these systems are primarily used for space science, earth observation and environmental monitoring, and exploration missions. a variety of systems and services are provided, including mission and system engineering services, satellite and instrument systems, mission operations, and propulsion systems. major programs include national polar-orbiting operational environmental -5- table of contents northrop grumman corporation satellite system (npoess), the james webb space telescope (jwst), and the legacy chandra space telescope and earth observing system programs. military systems military systems produces and integrates spiral development programs and operational programs associated with the u.s. air force, missile defense agency (mda), and other military customers. responsibilities include study design, build integration, launch, and operations of major u.s. military space systems. programs include the advanced extremely high frequency (aehf) payload, space tracking and surveillance system (stss), and the communication payload for the legacy milstar program, currently in operation. the defense support program is a contract for monitoring ballistic missile launches for the u.s. air force. missile systems missile systems supports the u.s. air force intercontinental ballistic missile (icbm) program, the mda kinetic energy interceptor (kei) program and other large missile customers. offerings include air and missile system engineering and integration; modeling and simulation; program management; system test and integration; development and deployment; missile system sustainment and modernization services; and development and test activities for complex missile systems. national systems the national systems business area gives the nation monitoring systems a global reach and enhanced national security. addressing requirements in space-based intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance systems, national systems provides mission and system engineering, satellite systems, and mission operations. customers are predominantly restricted, as are the major programs. technology emerging systems technology performs government funded research and development in support of the four business areas above. programs include the airborne laser (abl), other directed energy programs and advanced concepts programs. electronics the electronics segment, headquartered in linthicum, maryland, designs, develops, produces, integrates, and supports high performance sensors, intelligence processing, navigation systems, test and simulation systems, and weapons operating in all environments from undersea to outer space and cyberspace. it also develops, produces, integrates, and supports power, power control, and ship control systems for commercial and naval ships in domestic and international markets. in select markets it performs as a prime contractor, integrating multiple subsystems to provide complete systems to meet customers solution requirements. the segment is composed of seven areas of business: aerospace systems; defensive systems; government systems; land forces; naval marine systems; navigation systems; and space intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance (isr) systems. aerospace systems aerospace systems provides sensors, sensor processing, integrated sensor suites, and radar countermeasure systems for military surveillance and precision-strike; missile tracking and warning; and radio frequency electronic warfare. fire control radars include systems for the f-16, f-22a, f-35, and b-1b. navigation radars include commercial and military systems for transport and cargo aircraft. surveillance products include the airborne warning and control system radar, the multi-role electronically scanned array (mesa) radar, the mp-rtip, the ship-board cobra judy replacement radar, and multiple payloads on the p-8a. radio frequency electronic warfare products include radar warning receivers, self-protection jammers, and integrated electronic warfare systems for aircraft such as the ea-6b, ea-18, f-16, and f-15. defensive systems defensive systems provides systems that support combat aviation by protecting aircraft and helicopters from attack, by providing capabilities for precise targeting and tactical surveillance, by improving mission availability through automated test systems, and by improving mission skills through advanced simulation systems. a wide variety of fixed wing and helicopter protection systems include threat detection and laser-based countermeasures systems to defeat ground-launched infrared-guided missiles. defensive systems countermeasures systems are currently installed on over 40 types of aircraft, many of which are conducting combat operations in the global war on terror. targeting systems utilize lasers for target designation and precision weapon delivery, image processing, and target acquisition, identification, and tracking. the litening targeting pod system is -6- table of contents northrop grumman corporation combat-proven on the av-8b, a-10a/c, b-52h, f-15e, f-16, and f/a-18a/c/d. test systems include systems to test electronic components of combat aircraft on the flight line and in repair facilities. defensive systems also provides advanced simulators for use on test ranges and training facilities to emulate threats of potential adversaries. customers include the u.s. government and a wide variety of international allies. government systems government systems provides products and services to meet the needs of governments for improvements in the effectiveness of their civil and military infrastructure and of their combat and counter-terrorism operations. this includes systems and system integration of products and services for postal automation, for the detection and alert of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosive material, and for homeland defense, communications, and enterprise management. key programs include: flats sequencing system; international sorting centers; u.s. postal service bio-detection systems; and national level command and control, integrated air and missile defense and homeland defense systems for international customers. land forces land forces provides a full range of warfighting system solutions for the digital battlefield, including fire control systems for airborne and tracked vehicles, air and ground sensors to detect enemy movement, tactical range finding and precise laser designation, and systems that detect and defend against enemy fire. these solutions include precision guided munitions for manned and unmanned air vehicle delivery, laser designators and rangefinders, ground-based tactical radars for warning of missile and artillery attack, situational awareness sensors, unattended sensor systems, ground vehicle communication networks, and compact, lightweight synthetic aperture radar / ground moving target indicator (sar/gmti) radars for unmanned/rotary wing aircraft. sensor technologies provided include radio frequency, infrared, and electro-optical. principal programs include the longbow weapons system for the apache attack helicopter, the lightweight laser designator rangefinder, the viper strike precision guided munitions, the vehicular intercommunication system (vis), the firefinder counter-battery integrated radar system, the ground/air task oriented radar system (g/ator), and the lightweight starlite sar/gmti for unmanned air vehicles. naval marine systems naval and marine systems provides major subsystems and subsystem integration for sensors, sensor processing, missile launching, ship controls and power generation. it provides systems to military surface and subsurface platforms, and bridge and machinery control systems for commercial maritime applications. principal programs include: radars for navigation; radars for gun fire control and cruise missile defense; bridge management and control systems; power generation systems for aircraft carriers; power and propulsion systems for the virginia- class submarine; launch systems for trident submarines and the kei program; the advanced seal delivery system mini-submarine; and unmanned semi-autonomous naval systems. navigation systems navigation systems provides advanced navigation, avionics systems, and command and control centers for military and commercial applications. its products are used in military air, land, sea, and space systems as well as commercial space and aircraft in both u.s. and international markets. its subsidiaries, northrop grumman litef (freiburg, germany) and northrop grumman italia (pomezia, italy), are leading european inertial sensors and systems suppliers. key programs and applications include: integrated avionics for the u.s. marine corps attack and utility helicopters and u.s. navy e-2 aircraft; military navigation and positioning systems for the f-16 fighter, f-22a fighter/attack aircraft, eurofighter, and u.s. navy mh-60 helicopter; navigation systems for commercial aircraft; navigation systems for military and civil space satellites and deep space exploration. navigation systems also develops and produces fiber-optic acoustic systems for underwater surveillance for virginia -class submarines and the an/tyq-23 multi-service mobile tactical command centers for the u.s. marine corps and u.s. air force. space isr systems space isr systems provides space-based sensor and exploitation systems for civil, military, and intelligence community customers, as well as ground/surface based command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (c4isr) solutions to process, exploit, and disseminate multi-sensor data. capabilities include space-based payloads, radar, overhead non-imaging infrared sensors, electro-optic multi/hyper-spectral sensors, passive microwave sounders, mission processing solutions, and service-oriented open architecture c4isr systems. the current portfolio of programs includes -7- table of contents northrop grumman corporation spaced-based infrared system as the lead for the payload and mission processing systems, the distributed common ground system army as the system integrator, as well as a variety of civil space and restricted programs. shipbuilding the shipbuilding segment, headquartered in newport news, virginia, is the nation sole industrial designer, builder, and refueler of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and one of only two companies capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the u.s. navy. shipbuilding is also one of the nation leading full service providers for the design, engineering, construction, and life cycle support of major programs for the u.s. navy, u.s. coast guard, international navies, and for commercial vessels. the segment includes the following areas of business: aircraft carriers; expeditionary warfare; surface combatants; submarines; coast guard coastal defense; fleet support; commercial; and services other. aircraft carriers the u.s. navy newest carrier and the last of the nimitz class, the uss george h. w. bush , was commissioned in january 2009. advanced design and preparation efforts have been ongoing for the new generation carrier, the ford class, which will incorporate transformational technologies that will result in manning reductions, improved war fighting capability, and a new nuclear propulsion plant design. in september 2008, shipbuilding received a $5.1 billion contract award for construction of the first ship of the class, the gerald r. ford , which is scheduled for delivery in 2015. the company also provides ongoing maintenance for the u.s. navy aircraft carrier fleet through overhaul, refueling, and repair work. shipbuilding is currently performing the refueling and complex overhaul of the uss carl vinson with redelivery to the u.s. navy anticipated in early 2009. planning for the uss theodore roosevelt refueling and complex overhaul began in the fall of 2006 and the ship is expected to arrive at newport news, virginia in the summer of 2009. expeditionary warfare expeditionary warfare programs include the design and construction of amphibious assault ships for the u.s. navy, including the lhd 1 wasp class and the san antonio lpd 17 class. shipbuilding is the sole provider for the lhd class of large-deck, 40,500-ton multipurpose amphibious assault ships, which serve as the centerpiece of an amphibious ready group. currently, the lhd-8 is under construction and is a significant upgrade from the preceding seven ships of its class. the lhd-8 is scheduled for delivery in mid-2009. in 2007, the construction contract for lha 6, the first in a new class of enhanced amphibious assault ships, was awarded. the ship is scheduled for delivery in 2013. shipbuilding is also the sole provider of the lpd 17 class of ships, which function as amphibious transports. the initial four ships were delivered in 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008, and five lpd 17 ships are currently under construction. surface combatants surface combatants includes the design and construction of the arleigh burke ddg 51 class aegis guided missile destroyers, and the design and construction of ddg 1000 (previously dd(x)), the navy future transformational surface combatant class. shipbuilding is one of two prime contractors designing and building ddg 51 class destroyers, which provide primary anti-aircraft and anti-missile ship protection for the u.s. navy fleet. three arleigh burke class destroyers are currently under construction. in 2006, shipbuilding was awarded phase iv detailed design and long lead construction funding for the initial ddg 1000. the construction award for the second ship in the class, ddg 1001, was received in 2008. the contract establishes a joint work share between shipbuilding and general dynamics bath iron works (which will produce the first ship in the class) for detailed design and construction of the ddg 1000 class of ships. the advanced technologies developed for the ddg 1000 are anticipated to be incorporated into the next generation guided missile cruiser cg(x). submarines northrop grumman is one of only two u.s. companies capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines. in february 1997, the company and electric boat, a wholly owned subsidiary of general dynamics corporation, reached an agreement to cooperatively build virginia class nuclear attack submarines. the initial four submarines in the class were delivered in 2004, 2006, and 2008. electric boat and shipbuilding were awarded a construction contract in august 2003 for the second block of six virginia class submarines, the first of which was delivered by electric boat in august 2008. construction on the remaining five submarines is -8- table of contents northrop grumman corporation underway, with the last scheduled to be delivered in 2014. in december 2008, shipbuilding and electric boat were awarded a construction contract for the third block of eight virginia class submarines. the multi-year contract allows shipbuilding and its teammate to proceed with the construction of one submarine per year in 2009 and 2010, and two submarines per year from 2011 to 2013. the eighth submarine to be procured under this contract is scheduled for delivery in 2019. coast guard coastal defense shipbuilding is a joint venture partner along with lockheed martin for the coast guard deepwater modernization program. shipbuilding has design and production responsibility for surface ships. in 2006, the shipbuilding/lockheed martin joint venture was awarded a 43-month contract extension for the deepwater program. the first national security cutter (nsc), uscgc berthoff , was delivered to the coast guard in 2008. currently the waesche (nsc2) and stratton (nsc3) are in construction, and long lead procurement is underway for nsc4. fleet support shipbuilding provides after-market services, including on-going maintenance and repair work, for a wide array of naval and commercial vessels. the company has ship repair facilities in the u.s. navy largest homeports of norfolk, virginia, and san diego, california. commercial under the polar tanker program, shipbuilding was under contract to produce five double-hulled tankers. these tankers each transport one million barrels of crude oil from alaska to west coast refineries and are fully compliant with the oil pollution act of 1990. the last ship under this program was delivered in mid-2006. services other shipbuilding provides various services to commercial nuclear and non-nuclear industrial customers. in january 2008, savannah river nuclear solutions, a joint venture among shipbuilding, fluor corporation, and honeywell, was awarded a contract for site management and operations of the u.s. department of energy savannah river site in aiken, south carolina. in october 2008, shipbuilding announced the formation of a joint venture with areva np to build a new manufacturing and engineering facility in newport news, virginia, to help supply the growing american nuclear energy sector. corporate the company principal executive offices are located at 1840 century park east, los angeles, california 90067. the company telephone number is (310) 553-6262. the company home page on the internet is www.northropgrumman.com. references to the company website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. summary segment financial data for a more complete understanding of the company segment financial information, see segment operating results in part ii, item 7, and note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. customers and revenue concentration the company primary customer is the u.s. government. revenue from the u.s. government accounted for approximately 90 percent of total revenues in 2008, 2007, and 2006. no other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of total revenue during any period presented. no single product or service accounted for more than 10 percent of total revenue during any period presented. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. -9- table of contents northrop grumman corporation patents the following table summarizes the number of patents the company owns or has pending as of december 31, 2008: owned pending total u.s. patents 3,210 447 3,657 foreign patents 2,091 470 2,561 total 5,301 917 6,218 patents developed while under contract with the u.s. government may be subject to use by the u.s. government. in addition the company licenses intellectual property to, and from, third parties. management believes the company ability to conduct its operations would not be materially affected by the loss of any particular intellectual property right. seasonality no material portion of the company business is considered to be seasonal. the timing of revenue recognition is based on several factors including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and unit deliveries. see revenue recognition in part ii, item 7. backlog at december 31, 2008, total backlog was $78.1 billion compared with $63.7 billion at the end of 2007. approximately 65 percent of the $37.4 billion funded backlog at december 31, 2008, is expected to be converted into sales in 2009. total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded indefinite delivery indefinite quantity (idiq) orders. for multi-year services contracts with non-federal government customers having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. for backlog by segment see backlog in part ii, item 7. raw materials the most significant raw material required by the company is steel, used primarily for shipbuilding. the company has mitigated supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with a number of steel suppliers. in addition, the company has mitigated price risk related to its steel purchases through certain contractual arrangements with the u.s. government. while the company has generally been able to obtain key raw materials required in its production processes in a timely manner, a significant delay in receipt of these supplies by the company could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. government regulation the company business is affected by numerous laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. certain programs with the u.s. government that are prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in detail are referred to as restricted in this form 10-k. the consolidated financial statements and financial information contained within this form 10-k reflect the operating results of restricted programs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (u.s. gaap). see risk factors in part i, item 1a. -10- table of contents northrop grumman corporation research and development company-sponsored research and development activities primarily include independent research and development (ir d) efforts related to government programs. ir d expenses are included in general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to u.s. government contracts. company-sponsored research and development expenses totaled $576 million, $534 million, and $569 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. expenses for research and development sponsored by the customer are charged directly to the related contracts. employee relations the company believes that it maintains good relations with its 123,600 employees, of which approximately 18 percent are covered by 36 collective bargaining agreements. the company expects to re-negotiate seven of its collective bargaining agreements in 2009. it is not expected that the results of these negotiations will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. environmental matters federal, state, and local laws relating to the protection of the environment affect the company manufacturing operations. the company has provided for the estimated cost to complete environmental remediation where the company has determined it is probable that the company will incur such costs in the future to address environmental impacts at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where it has been named a potentially responsible party (prp) by the environmental protection agency or similarly designated by other environmental agencies. these estimates may change given the inherent difficulty in estimating environmental cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws, regulations, and their interpretations. in order to assess the potential impact on the company financial statements, management estimates the possible remediation costs that reasonably could be incurred by the company on a site-by-site basis. such estimates take into consideration the professional judgment of the company environmental engineers and, when necessary, consultation with outside environmental specialists. in most instances, only a range of reasonably possible costs can be estimated. however, in the determination of accruals, the most probable amount is used when determinable, and the minimum is used when no single amount is more probable. the company records accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting period in which the company responsibility is established and the costs can be reasonably estimated. the company does not anticipate and record insurance recoveries before it has determined that collection is probable. management estimates that at december 31, 2008, the range of reasonably possible future costs for environmental remediation sites is $186 million to $279 million, of which $231 million is accrued in other current liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position. environmental accruals are recorded on an undiscounted basis. at sites involving multiple parties, the company provides environmental accruals based upon its expected share of liability, taking into account the financial viability of other jointly liable parties. environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized as appropriate. capitalized expenditures relate to long-lived improvements in currently operating facilities. in addition, should other prps not pay their allocable share of remediation costs, the company may have to incur costs in addition to those already estimated and accrued, which could have a material effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the company has made the investments it believes necessary in order to comply with environmental laws. although management cannot predict whether new information gained as projects progress will materially affect the estimated liability accrued, management does not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. -11- table of contents northrop grumman corporation competitive conditions northrop grumman, along with lockheed martin corporation, the boeing company, raytheon company, and general dynamics corporation are among the largest companies in the u.s. defense industry at this time. northrop grumman competes against these and other companies for a number of programs, both large and small. intense competition and long operating cycles are both key characteristics of northrop grumman business and the defense industry. it is common in this industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, turn out to be a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting party. it is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. the company success in the competitive defense industry depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and services, as well as its ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. it is necessary to maintain, as the company has, sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic components, and major subassemblies. in this manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is as vital to success as managing internal operations. similarly, there is intense competition among many companies in the information and services markets, which are generally more labor intensive with competitive margin rates over contract periods of shorter duration. competitors in the information and services markets include the defense industry participants mentioned above as well as many other large and small entities with expertise in various specialized areas. the company ability to successfully compete in the information and services markets depends on a number of factors; most important is the capability to deploy skilled professionals, many requiring security clearances, at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of these markets. accordingly, various workforce initiatives are in place to ensure the company is successful in attracting, developing and retaining sufficient resources to maintain or improve its competitive position within these markets. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. executive officers see part iii, item 10, for information about executive officers of the company. available information throughout this form 10-k, the company incorporates by reference information from parts of other documents filed with the securities and exchange commission (sec). the sec allows the company to disclose important information by referring to it in this manner, and you should review this information in addition to the information contained herein. the company annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and proxy statement for the annual shareholders meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through the company web site as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of such material with the sec. you can learn more about the company by reviewing the company sec filings on the company web site. the company sec reports can be accessed through the investor relations page of the company web site at www.northropgrumman.com. the sec also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding sec registrants, including northrop grumman. the public may read and copy any materials filed by the company with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. -12- table of contents northrop grumman corporation item 1a. risk factors the company consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within the company control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. the company urges investors to carefully consider the risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report. n the company depends heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for a substantial portion of the company business, including programs subject to security classification restrictions on information. changes affecting this customer capacity to do business with the company or the effects of competition in the defense industry could have a material adverse effect on the company or its prospects. approximately 91 percent of the company revenues during 2008 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the u.s. government and are therefore affected by, among other things, the federal budget process. the company is a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the u.s. government and its agencies as well as foreign governments and agencies. these contracts are subject to the respective customers political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, and in the case of contracts with the u.s. government, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes, the u.s. government ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. the termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the u.s. government could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or prospects. current or future economic conditions could result in the reprioritization of or reduction in future u.s. government defense spending levels. in the event of termination for the government convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred. the company is involved as a plaintiff in a lawsuit concerning a contract terminated for convenience. see other matters in part i, item 3. termination resulting from the company default could expose the company to liability and have a material adverse effect on its ability to compete for contracts. in addition, a material amount of the company revenues and profits is derived from programs that are subject to security classification restrictions (restricted business), which could limit the company ability to discuss details about these programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. as a result, investors might have less insight into the company restricted business than other businesses of the company or could experience less ability to evaluate fully the risks, disputes or claims associated with restricted business. the company success in the competitive defense industry depends upon its ability to develop and market its products and services, as well as its ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. a loss of business to the company competitors could have a material adverse affect on the company ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain market share. n many of the company contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within the company control. failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect the company profitability and future prospects. the company designs, develops and manufactures technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by its customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and components could prevent the company from achieving contractual requirements. -13- table of contents northrop grumman corporation in addition, the company products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems which could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure, problems with quality, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services, and unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments previously received by the company. certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period of time. under such terms, the company could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and/or collected. the company has not experienced any material losses in the last decade in connection with such contract performance incentive provisions. however, if the company were to experience launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the future, such events could have a material adverse impact on the company consolidated financial position or results of operations. n contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes the company to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. operating income is adversely affected when contract costs that cannot be billed to customers are incurred. this cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase due to technical challenges or if initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost were incorrect. the cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. reasons for cost growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. a significant change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material effect on the company consolidated financial position or results of operations. due to their nature, fixed-price contracts inherently have more risk than flexibly priced contracts and therefore generally carry higher profit margins. approximately 30 percent of the company annual revenues are derived from fixed-price contracts see contracts in part ii, item 7. flexibly priced contracts may carry risk to the extent of their specific contract terms and conditions relating to performance award fees, including cost sharing agreements, and negative performance incentives. the company typically enters into fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably estimated based on experience. in addition, certain contracts other than fixed-price contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. should the terms specified in those contracts not be met, then profitability may be reduced. fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of the company fixed-price contracts and inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. as work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are generally reduced. in addition, successful performance of fixed-price development contracts which include production units is subject to the company ability to control cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. while management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price development contracts, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. examples of the company significant fixed-price development contracts include the f-16 block 60 combat avionics program and the mesa radar system program for the wedgetail and peace eagle contracts, both of which are performed by the electronics segment. it is also not unprecedented in the shipbuilding business for the company to -14- table of contents northrop grumman corporation negotiate fixed-price production follow-on contracts before the development effort has been completed and learning curves fully realized on existing flexibly priced development contracts. n the company uses estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect the company profitability and its overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of the company contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of company initiated efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives, awards, or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and performance. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. n the company operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws, regulations and restrictions, and noncompliance with these laws, regulations and restrictions could expose the company to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on the company profitability and its overall financial position. the company has thousands of contracts and operations in many parts of the world subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations. prime contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government and subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including the false claims act and the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all u.s. government agencies. given the company dependence on u.s. government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company. in addition, international business subjects the company to numerous u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. failure by the company or its sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of the company export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on the company. changes in regulation or political environment may affect the company ability to conduct business in foreign markets including investment, procurement, and repatriation of earnings. the company operates in a highly regulated environment and is routinely audited by the u.s. government and others. on a regular basis, the company monitors its policies and procedures with respect to its contracts to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions and to assess compliance with all applicable government regulations. negative audit findings could result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, or suspension of payments. from time to time the company is subject to u.s. government investigations relating to its operations. government contractors that are found to have violated the law such as the false claims act or the arms export control act, or are indicted or convicted for violations of other federal laws, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, may be subject to significant fines. such convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government -15- table of contents northrop grumman corporation contracting for some period of time. given the company dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company. n the company business is subject to disruption caused by issues with its suppliers, subcontractors, workforce, natural disasters and other factors that could adversely affect the company profitability and its overall financial position. the company may be affected by delivery or performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors, as well as other factors that may cause operating results to be adversely affected. changes in inventory requirements or other production cost increases may also have a negative effect on the company consolidated financial position or results of operations. performance failures by a subcontractor of the company or difficulty in maintaining complete alignment of the subcontractor obligations with the company prime contract obligations may adversely affect the company ability to perform its obligations on the prime contract, which could reduce the company profitability due to damages or other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor or from the customer and could result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on the company ability to compete for future contracts. if the recent period of adverse economic conditions and credit market volatility continues, the company profitability may be negatively impacted by the inability of certain of the company subcontractors and key suppliers to continue providing their products and/or services. operating results are heavily dependent upon the company ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skill sets and/or security clearances. the successful negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and avoidance of organized work stoppages are also critical to the ongoing operations of the company. the company has significant operations located in regions of the u.s. that may be exposed to damaging storms and other natural disasters. while preventative measures typically help to minimize harm to the company, the damage and disruption resulting from certain storms or other natural disasters may be significant. although no assurances can be made, the company believes it can recover costs associated with natural disasters through insurance or its contracts. natural disasters such as storms and earthquakes can disrupt electrical and other power distribution networks and cause adverse effects on profitability and performance, including computer and internet operation and accessibility. computer viruses and similar harmful software programs, as well as network outages, disruptions and attacks also may have a material adverse effect on the company profitability and performance unless quarantined or otherwise prevented. n changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce the company operating income. as part of its overall strategy, the company will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. these investments are made upon careful target analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. these procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. after acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. goodwill accounts for approximately half of the company recorded total assets. the company evaluates goodwill amounts for impairment annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. adverse equity market conditions and the resulting decline in market multiples and the company stock price led to a -16- table of contents northrop grumman corporation non-cash, after-tax charge of $3.1 billion for impairment of goodwill at shipbuilding and space technology. if the current economic conditions continue to deteriorate causing further decline in the company stock price, additional impairments to one or more businesses could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment analysis. the company will continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of its goodwill and other long-lived assets. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. n the company is subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against the company requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against the company operating income and materially impairing the company financial position. the size and complexity of the company business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. the company is subject to environmental claims, income tax matters and other litigation, which, if not resolved within established accruals, could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3, and critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. n pension and medical expense associated with the company retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions and future market performance of plan assets. a substantial portion of the company current and retired employee population is covered by pension and post-retirement benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon the company various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. in addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of the company pension and post-retirement benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. variances from these estimates could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. recent volatility in the financial markets has resulted in lower than expected returns on the company pension plan assets, resulting in potentially higher pension costs in future periods. n the company insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of its significant risks or its insurers may deny coverage of material losses incurred by the company, which could adversely affect the company profitability and overall financial position. the company endeavors to identify and obtain in established markets insurance agreements to cover significant risks and liabilities (including, among others, natural disasters, product liability and business interruption). not every risk or liability can be protected against by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. in some, but not all, circumstances the company may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. because of the limitations in overall available coverage referred to above, the company may have to bear substantial costs for uninsured losses that could have an adverse effect upon its consolidated results of operations and its overall consolidated financial position. additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows and, where litigation with the carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to the company may have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated results of operations. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. n current trends in u.s. government procurement may adversely affect cash flows or program profitability. the company, like others in the defense industry, is aware of a potential problem presented by strict compliance with the defense federal acquisition regulation supplement preference for enumerated specialty metals sourced domestically or from certain foreign countries. subcontractors and lower-tier suppliers have made disclosures indicating inability to comply with the rule as written. subject to limitations, -17- table of contents northrop grumman corporation inability to certify that all enumerated specialty metals in a product comply with sourcing requirements can lead to u.s. government customers preventing delivery of materiel and products critical to national defense. n current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect the company ability to access cost-effective sources of funding. the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption in late 2008 and early 2009. historically, the company has occasionally accessed these markets to support certain business activities including acquisitions, capital expansion projects, refinancing existing debt, and issuing letters of credit. in the future, the company may not be able to obtain capital market financing or credit availability on similar terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. n the company is subject to changes in united states and global market conditions that are beyond the company control and may have a material effect on the company business and results of operations. the united states and global economies are currently experiencing a period of substantial economic uncertainty with wide-ranging effects, including the current disruption in global financial markets. possible effects of these economic events are described in the preceding risk factors, including those relating to u.s. government defense spending, business disruptions caused by suppliers or subcontractors, impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, pension costs and access to capital and credit markets. although governments worldwide, including the u.s. government, have initiated sweeping economic plans, the company is unable to predict the impact, severity, and duration of these economic events, which could have a material effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rates the company is exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed-rate long-term debt obligations, variable-rate short-term borrowings under the credit agreement, short-term investments, and long-term notes receivable. at december 31, 2008, substantially all outstanding borrowings were fixed-rate long-term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. the company has a modest exposure to interest rate risk resulting from four interest rate swap agreements described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors 7 the company originally was formed in hawthorne, california in 1939 as northrop aircraft incorporated and was reincorporated in delaware in 1985 as northrop corporation. northrop aircraft incorporated was a principal developer of the flying wing technology, including the b-2 stealth bomber. the company developed into one of the largest defense contractors in the world through a series of acquisitions, as well as organic growth. some of the most notable acquisitions during the last two decades included the acquisition of grumman corporation (grumman) in 1994, after which time the company was renamed northrop grumman corporation. grumman was a premier military aircraft systems integrator and builder of the lunar module that first delivered men to the surface of the moon. in 1996, we acquired the defense and electronics businesses of westinghouse electric corporation (westinghouse), a world leader in the development and production of sophisticated radar and other electronic systems for the nation's defense, civil aviation, and other international and domestic applications. in 2001, we acquired litton industries, a global electronics and information technology company, and one of the nation's leading full-service design, engineering, construction, and life cycle supporters of major surface ships for the u.s. navy, u.s. coast guard, and international navies. in 2002, we acquired trw inc. (trw), a leading developer of military and civil space systems and satellite payloads, as well as a leading global integrator of complex, mission-enabling systems and services. effective as of march 31, 2011, the company completed the spin-off to its shareholders of huntington ingalls industries, inc. (hii). hii operates our former shipbuilding business, which was acquired in 2001 through the acquisition of newport news shipbuilding and a portion of the litton acquisition. the spin-off was the culmination of the company's decision to explore strategic alternatives for shipbuilding, as it was determined to be in the best interests of shareholders, customers, and employees by allowing the company and shipbuilding to pursue more effectively their respective opportunities to maximize value. as a result of the spin-off, assets, liabilities and results of operations for the former shipbuilding segment have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 for further information. organization from time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses, and realign contracts, programs or business areas among and within our operating segments that possess similar customers, expertise, and capabilities. internal realignments are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance development and delivery of products and services. the operating results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes made through december 31, 2012 . we are currently aligned into four operating segments: aerospace systems, electronic systems, information systems, and technical services. see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 for further information. aerospace systems aerospace systems, headquartered in redondo beach, california, is a leader in the design, development, integration and production of manned aircraft, unmanned systems, spacecraft, high-energy laser systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems. aerospace systems' customers, primarily u.s. government agencies, use these systems in mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; communications; battle management; strike operations; electronic warfare; earth observation; space science; and space exploration. the 1 table of contents northrop grumman corporation segment consists of four business areas: unmanned systems; military aircraft systems; space systems; and advanced programs &amp;technology. unmanned systems designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates tactical and reconnaissance unmanned systems. key programs include the rq-4 global hawk reconnaissance system, triton (formerly known as broad area maritime surveillance or bams) aircraft system, nato alliance ground surveillance, fire scout aircraft systems, and aerial targets. military aircraft systems designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne c4isr, electronic warfare mission systems, long range strike and tactical aircraft systems. key programs include e-2 hawkeye, joint surveillance target attack radar system (jstars), and the newly developed long endurance multi-intelligence vehicle (lemv), an optionally manned or unmanned lighter than air weapon system. electronic warfare includes the ea-18g growler and ea-6b prowler airborne electronic attack weapon systems. this business area designed, developed and manufactured the b-2 bomber and now provides sustainment and upgrade services for the b-2, which is the nation's most advanced long range strike aircraft system. tactical aircraft includes the design, development, manufacture and integration of f/a-18 aft sections and f-35 center sections. space systems designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems, sensors and communications payloads in support of c4isr. key programs include the james webb space telescope (jwst), advanced extremely high frequency (aehf) payload and restricted programs. advanced programs &amp; technology creates advanced technologies and innovative concepts to satisfy existing and emerging customer needs. this business area matures these technologies and concepts to create and capture new programs that other aerospace systems business areas can execute. key programs include the navy unmanned combat air system (n-ucas), restricted programs, and directed energy and advanced concepts programs for air, land and space applications. electronic systems electronic systems, headquartered in linthicum, maryland, is a leader in the design, development, manufacture, and support of solutions for sensing, understanding, anticipating, and controlling the operating environment for our global military, civil, and commercial customers. electronic systems provides a variety of defense electronics and systems, airborne fire control radars, situational awareness systems, early warning systems, airspace management systems, navigation systems, communications systems, marine power and propulsion systems, space systems, and logistics services. the segment consists of four business areas: intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance &amp; targeting systems; land &amp; self protection systems; naval &amp; marine systems; and navigation systems. intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance &amp; targeting systems delivers products and services for space satellite applications, airborne and ground based surveillance, multi-sensor processing, analysis, and dissemination for combat units and national agencies, both domestic and international. these systems provide battle space awareness, missile defense, command and control, combat avionics (fire control radars, multi-function apertures and pods), and airborne electro-optical/infrared (eo/ir) targeting systems. key programs include airborne fire control radars such as the f-16, b-1b, f-22 active electronically scanned array (aesa), f-35 aesa; eo/ir systems such as the distributed aperture systems, and litening; airborne surveillance radars such as the multirole electronically scanned array, airborne early warning &amp; control system, multi-function active sensor for triton, multi-platform radar technology insertion program; space systems such as the space-based infrared system, defense meteorological satellite program, defense support program, and the scalable space inertial reference unit. land &amp; self protection systems delivers products, systems, and services that support ground-based, helicopter and fixed wing platforms (manned and unmanned) with sensor and protection systems. a major product line of this business area consists of systems that perform threat detection and countermeasures that defeat infrared and radio frequency (rf) guided missile and tracking systems. this business area also provides integrated electronic warfare capability, communications and intelligence systems, unattended ground sensors, automatic test equipment, advanced threat simulators, ground based surveillance radars, and laser/electro-optical systems including hand-held, tripod-mounted, and ground or air vehicle mounted systems. key programs include the ground/air task oriented radar, the three-dimensional expeditionary long-range radar, the large aircraft infrared countermeasures, the common infrared countermeasures system, the apache fire control radar, and the vehicle and dismount exploitation radar. naval &amp; marine systems delivers products and services to defense, civil, and commercial customers supporting smart navigation, shipboard radar surveillance, ship control, machinery control, integrated combat management systems for naval surface ships, high-resolution undersea sensors (for mine hunting, situational awareness, and other 2 table of contents northrop grumman corporation applications), unmanned marine vehicles, shipboard missile and encapsulated payload launch systems, propulsion and power generation systems, and nuclear reactor instrumentation and control. key programs include an/spq-9b anti-ship missile defense radar (asmd), integrated bridge and navigation systems, voyage management systems, integrated platform and combat management systems, inertial navigator systems, virginia class submarine, and the trident d5 launch system. navigation systems - delivers products and services to defense, civil, and commercial customers supporting situational awareness, inertial navigation in all domains (air, land, sea, and space), embedded global positioning systems, identification friend or foe (iff) systems, acoustic sensors, advanced synthetic cockpits, cockpit video monitors, mission computing, command and control systems and integrated avionics and electronics systems. key programs include the integrated avionics system, the fiber optics acoustic sensors, and the an/tyq-23 aircraft and command and control system. in addition to the product and service lines discussed above, the electronic systems segment also includes the advanced concepts &amp; technologies division (ac&amp;td), which develops next-generation systems to position the segment in key developing markets. ac&amp;td focuses on understanding customer mission needs; conceiving affordable, innovative and open solutions; and demonstrating the readiness and effectiveness of electronic systems' products. the segment uses a product ownership approach, which guides the transition of new technology from laboratory to market and implements modular open system product families that are readily reconfigurable and scalable to affordably support new requirements, new products, or component obsolescence. information systems information systems, headquartered in mclean, virginia, is a leading global provider of advanced solutions for the dod, national intelligence, federal civilian, state and local agencies, and international allies, as well as certain commercial customers. focus areas are in cybersecurity; c4isr; intelligence processing; air and missile defense; decision support systems; information technology; and systems engineering and integration. within c4isr, we are a major end-to-end provider of net-enabled battle management c4 systems, decision superiority, and mission-enabling solutions. our systems are installed in operational and command centers world-wide and across dod services and joint commands. we also deliver intelligence-related systems and services to the u.s. government and international security community in several mission areas including signals intelligence (sigint) systems, geospatial intelligence data, multi-source intelligence data fusion and dynamic cyber defense. key programs include joint national integration center research and development contract , battlefield airborne communications node , integrated battle command system , counter narco-terrorism program office, counter rocket and mortar, consolidated afloat networks and enterprise services and several restricted programs. cybersecurity offerings span intelligence, defense, federal civilian, state and international customers, providing specialized information systems and services in support of critical government missions. applications are predominantly for high end intelligence and defense missions, but also include health, homeland security, public safety and civil financial applications. most intelligence community programs are restricted. cybersecurity defense and civil programs and customers include virginia information technologies agency , centers for disease control and enterprise networked services support. technical services technical services, headquartered in herndon, virginia, is a leader in innovative and affordable logistics, modernization and sustainment support, and also provides an array of other advanced technology and engineering services, including space, missile defense, nuclear security, training and simulation. the segment consists of three business areas: defense and government services; training solutions; and integrated logistics and modernization. defense and government services provides sustainment and modernization of tactical vehicles, high technology and engineering services in the areas of nuclear security, space and launch services, civil engineering, and military range-sensor-instrumentation operations. key programs include intercontinental ballistic missile, fort irwin logistics services support and fort polk logistics services support. training solutions provides realistic and comprehensive training through live, virtual, and constructive domains, ranging from senior military leadership to warfighters, for both u.s. and international peacekeeping forces. the business area designs and develops future conflict training scenarios, and provides warfighters and allies with live, virtual, and constructive training programs. the business area has supported the training of america's senior battlefield commanders for every major contingency beginning with gulf war i through ongoing operations in afghanistan today. the business area offers innovative and diverse training applications ranging from battle command to professional military education. key programs include the mission command training program, 3 table of contents northrop grumman corporation mission command training centers, ctc-is, joint coalition warfighting center, and saudi arabian national guard. integrated logistics and modernization provides complete life cycle product and weapon system sustainment and modernization. the business area focuses on providing direct support to warfighters while delivering aircraft and subsystem maintenance, repair, and overhaul (mro); modernization of those platforms and systems; supply chain management services, warehousing and inventory transportation, field services, and on-going weapons maintenance and technical assistance. the business area specializes in quick reaction capability and deployed operations in support of customers. key programs include ea-pup, hunter, triton, firescout, lemv, kc-10 and jstars. selected financial data and segment operating results for a more complete understanding of our business, see selected financial data in part ii, item 6. for a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see segment operating results in part ii, item 7, and note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. customer concentration our primary customer is the u.s. government. revenue from the u.s. government (which includes foreign military sales a method to sell u.s. defense equipment and services to foreign governments through the dod) accounted for 90 percent or more of total revenues in each of the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. no single product or service accounted for more than ten percent of total revenue during any period presented. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. competitive conditions we compete with many companies in the defense industry and the intelligence and civil markets. lockheed martin corporation, the boeing company, raytheon company, general dynamics corporation, l-3 communications corporation, saic, bae systems inc., eads, and finmeccanica spa are our primary competitors. key characteristics of our industry include long operating cycles and intense competition, which is evident through the number of bid protests (competitor protests of u.s. government procurement awards) and the number of competitors bidding on program opportunities. it is common in the defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, become a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. it is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa. seasonality no material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. backlog total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog. unexercised contract options and indefinite delivery indefinite quantity (idiq) contracts are not included in backlog, until the time the option or idiq task order is exercised or awarded. for multi-year service contracts with non-u.s. government customers having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. backlog is converted into sales as costs are incurred or deliveries are made. at december 31, 2012 , total backlog was $40.8 billion , compared with $39.5 billion at the end of 2011. approximately $21.4 billion of our backlog at december 31, 2012, is expected to be converted into sales in 2013. for backlog by segment, see backlog in part ii, item 7. research and development our research and development activities primarily include independent research and development (ir&amp;d) efforts related to u.s. government programs. company-sponsored ir&amp;d efforts are included in general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to u.s. government contracts, while customer-sponsored research and development efforts are charged directly to the related contracts. company-sponsored ir&amp;d expenses totaled $520 million , $543 million , and $580 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. patents we routinely apply for and own a number of u.s. and foreign patents related to the products and services we provide. in addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual 4 table of contents northrop grumman corporation property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally holds licenses to patents developed in the performance of u.s. government contracts, and may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by these patents. although these intellectual property rights are important to the operation of our business, no existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would, in our opinion, have a material impact on our business. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. raw materials we have not experienced significant delays in the supply or availability of raw materials, nor have we experienced a significant price increase for raw materials, that would have a notable adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see risk factors in part i, item 1a and overview outlook in part ii, item 7. employee relations we believe that we maintain good relations with our 68,100 employees, of which approximately 3,300 are covered by 17 collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated or re-negotiated eight of our collective bargaining agreements in 2012 and expect to re-negotiate renewals for three of our collective bargaining agreements in 2013. these negotiations had no material adverse effect on our results of operations. for risks associated with collective bargaining agreements, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. regulatory matters government contract regulation our businesses are affected by numerous laws and regulations, including those relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate our contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. if a u.s. government contract were to be terminated for convenience, we generally would be protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract and profit on those costs, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. in the unusual circumstance where a u.s. government contract does not have such termination protection, we attempt to mitigate the termination risk through other means. termination resulting from our default may expose us to liability and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for other contracts. the u.s. government also has the ability to stop work under a contract for a limited period of time for its convenience. in the event of a stop work order, we generally would be protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract to date and for costs associated with the temporary stoppage of work on the contract. however, such temporary stoppages and delays could introduce inefficiencies for which we may not be able to negotiate full recovery from the u.s. government, and could ultimately result in termination for convenience or reduced future orders on certain contracts. additionally, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our u.s. government contracts, even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. certain programs with the u.s. government that are prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in detail are referred to as restricted in this form 10-k. the consolidated financial statements and financial information in this form 10-k reflect the operating results of our entire company, including such restricted programs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (gaap). contracts we generate the majority of our business from long-term contracts with the u.s. government for development, production, and support activities. due to the long-term nature of our contracts with the u.s. government and the products and services covered by these contracts, we generally recognize revenue on the percentage of completion method of accounting. under the percentage of completion method of accounting, revenues are generally recognized as costs are incurred (cost-to-cost method) or as units are delivered (units-of-delivery method). unless otherwise specified in a contract, allowable and allocable costs are billed to contracts with the u.s. government under the requirements of the federal acquisition regulation (far) and cost accounting standards (cas) regulations. examples of costs incurred by us and not billed to the u.s. government in accordance with the requirements of the far and cas regulations include, but are not limited to, certain legal costs, lobbying costs, charitable donations, advertising costs and interest expense. our long-term contracts typically fall into one of two broad categories: cost-type contracts cost-type contracts include cost plus fixed fee, award fee, and incentive fee contracts. cost-type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs incurred plus a fee. cost-type contracts generally require that the contractor use its best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation. fees on cost-type contracts can be fixed in terms of dollar value or 5 table of contents northrop grumman corporation percentage of costs. award fees are based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality, and technical performance. award fees are determined and earned based on an evaluation by the customer of the company's performance against negotiated criteria, and are intended to provide motivation for excellence in contract performance. incentive fees provide for an initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later by a formula based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs. award fees and incentive fees that can reasonably be estimated and are deemed reasonably assured are recorded over the performance period of the contract. fixed-price contracts a firm fixed-price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is a pre-determined, negotiated amount and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor, absent changes in scope by the customer. fixed-price incentive contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs plus a fee up to a ceiling amount, but are subject to a cost-share limit that affects profitability. fixed-price incentive contracts effectively become firm fixed-price contracts once the cost-share limit is reached. time-and-materials contracts are considered fixed-price contracts as they specify a fixed hourly rate for each labor hour charged. the following table summarizes revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012, recognized by contract type and customer: ($ in millions) u.s. government other customers total percent of total cost-type contracts $ 13,732 $ 283 $ 14,015 56 % fixed-price contracts 8,976 2,227 11,203 44 % total sales $ 22,708 $ 2,510 $ 25,218 100 % profit margins may vary materially depending on, among other things, the negotiated contract fee arrangements, the achievement of performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. we monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to enhance consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations and laws. in addition, costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the u.s. government are routinely audited by the defense contract audit agency (dcaa). environmental our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. the estimated cost to complete remediation is accrued when it is probable that the company will incur costs to address environmental impacts at sites where the company has been named a potentially responsible party (prp) and the costs are estimable. to assess the potential impact on the company's financial statements, management estimates the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that could be incurred by the company, taking into account the facts currently available to the company regarding each site, as well as the current state of technology and prior experience. these estimates are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect changes in facts and circumstances. see risk factors in part i, item 1a, as well as note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. in 2009, we established a goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions over a five-year period through december 31, 2014. in 2010, we established goals for water usage and solid waste generation. for information on the progress towards achieving our goals, refer to our corporate responsibility report on our web site. the information contained in our corporate responsibility report should not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into this report. we have incurred and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and satisfy green initiatives, including our goals. at this time, these costs have not had, and we do not expect that these costs will have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. executive officers see part iii, item 10, for information about our executive officers. 6 table of contents northrop grumman corporation available information our principal executive offices are located at 2980 fairview park drive, falls church, virginia 22042. our telephone number is (703) 280-2900 and our home page on the internet is www.northropgrumman.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and proxy statement for the annual shareholders' meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the securities and exchange commission (sec). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page of our web site. the sec also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about sec registrants, including northrop grumman corporation. you may also obtain these materials at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you can obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. references to our web site and the sec's web site in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, such web sites. such information should not be considered a part of this report, unless otherwise expressly incorporated by reference in this report. item 1a. risk factors our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. we urge you to carefully consider the risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report. we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for a substantial portion of our business. changes in this customer's priorities and spending could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our primary customer is the u.s. government, from which we derived more than 90 percent of our total revenues during each of the past several years. the u.s. government is implementing significant reductions in government spending and other significant program changes. we cannot predict the impact on existing, follow-on, replacement or future programs from potential changes in priorities due to changes in defense spending levels, military strategy and planning, and/or changes in social-political priorities. a shift in government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for its convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government's convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. in some circumstances, however, a u.s. government contract does not have such termination protection. in those cases, we attempt to mitigate the termination risk through other means. to the extent such means are unavailable or do not fully address the costs incurred or profit on those costs, we could face significant losses from the termination for convenience of a contract that lacks termination protection. termination by the u.s. government of a contract for convenience also could result in the cancellation of future work on that program. termination by the u.s. government of a contract due to our default could require us to pay for re-procurement costs in excess of the original contract price, net of the value of work accepted from the original contract, as well as other damages. termination of a contract due to our default may expose us to material liability and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for other contracts. the u.s. government also has the ability to stop work under a contract for a limited period of time for its convenience. it is possible that the u.s. government could invoke this ability across a limited or broad number of contracts in this challenging fiscal environment. in the event of a stop work order, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract to date and for costs associated with the temporary stoppage of work on the contract. however, such temporary stoppages and delays could introduce inefficiencies for which we may not be able to negotiate full recovery from the u.s. government, and could ultimately result in termination for convenience or reduced future orders on certain contracts. in this 7 table of contents northrop grumman corporation challenging environment, our industry could face a significant number of terminations, change orders and stop work orders, which by their volume could further delay and jeopardize our industry's ability to recover costs. significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs and u.s. government funding more broadly may negatively impact our business and programs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. u.s. government programs are subject to annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for many programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though the program performance period may extend over several years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are obligated to the contract. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual budget process ultimately approved by congress or in separate supplemental appropriations or continuing resolutions, as applicable. the impact, severity and duration of the current u.s. economic situation and plans adopted by the u.s. government, along with pressures on, and uncertainty surrounding, the federal budget and the permissible federal debt limit, could adversely affect the funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. in the event that government funding for any of our programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government or the prime contractor, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. in addition, if the existing statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt is not raised, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our u.s. government contracts even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments. an extended delay in the timely payment of billings by the u.s. government would likely result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in august 2011, congress enacted the budget control act which, while raising the existing statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt, also committed the u.s. government to significantly reducing the federal deficit over ten years. the budget control act established caps on discretionary spending through 2021, reducing federal spending by approximately $1 trillion over that period relative to the fiscal year (fy) 2012 presidential budget submission, and called for very substantial automatic spending cuts, known as "sequestration," split between defense and non-defense programs. in january 2013, congress enacted the american taxpayer relief act of 2012. it addressed a number of tax code provisions and certain spending issues, but left in place the sequester (although delaying its implementation to march 1, 2013) and did not address other fiscal matters such as the debt ceiling. the delay in the sequester leaves the dod less time to enact 2013 automatic spending cuts and adds to the uncertainty from such cuts. the nation's debt ceiling is currently expected to be reached during the first half of 2013. congress and the administration continue to debate these issues and the terms of a possible national fiscal approach. the outcome of that debate could have a significant impact on future defense spending plans. while the president's proposed fy 2014 budget is scheduled for release in february 2013, its delivery may be delayed given these unresolved fiscal matters. we are unable to predict the impact that the delayed automatic cuts or other defense spending cuts would have on funding for our individual programs. long-term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of our suppliers and subcontractors. while we believe that our business is well-positioned in areas that the dod has indicated are areas of focus for future defense spending, the impact of the budget control act and the ongoing fiscal debates remain uncertain and our business and industry could be materially adversely affected. the president's proposed budget for fy 2013 represented a slight decline from fy 2012 levels. although congress passed a continuing resolution to fund u.s. government operations through march 27, 2013, it is unclear whether annual appropriations bills will be passed during fy 2013. the u.s. government may operate under a continuing resolution for all of fy 2013, potentially resulting in no new contract or program starts for that year. the congressional budget process has been marked by significant debate within the government regarding fy 2013 defense spending. budget decisions made in this environment will likely have long-term consequences for our company and the entire defense industry. should sequestration as currently mandated be implemented in march 2013, absent any other changes, we believe it would have serious negative consequences for the security of our country, the defense industrial base, including northrop grumman, and the customers, employees, suppliers, 8 table of contents northrop grumman corporation investors, and communities that rely on the companies in the defense industrial base. there are many variables in how the law could be implemented that make it difficult to determine specific impacts; however, we expect that sequestration, as currently provided for under the budget control act, would result in lower revenues, profits and cash flows for our company. such circumstances may also result in an impairment of our goodwill. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to various procurement regulations and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. u.s. government contractors must comply with many significant procurement regulations and other requirements. these regulations and requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. new regulations or procurement requirements (including, for example, counterfeit parts and conflict minerals) or changes to current ones, could increase our costs and risks and reduce our margins. failure to comply with these regulations could, among other things, result in the withholding of payments and adversely impact our reputation and ability to participate in future u.s. government contracts. we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa), defense contract management agency (dcma) and dod inspector general. these agencies review performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. costs ultimately found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions or suspension or debarment from doing business with the u.s. government. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. if such actions were to result in suspension or debarment, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are from time to time subject to u.s. government investigations relating to our operations, and we are subject to or expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws, including but not limited to the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, cost accounting standards (cas), federal acquisition regulation (far), the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act and the foreign corrupt practices act. if we are found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination and the assessment of penalties, fines, or compensatory or treble damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. such matters could also result in suspension or debarment. given our dependence on government contracting and authorizations, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. changes to business practices for u.s. government contractors could have a significant adverse effect on current programs, potential new awards and the processes by which procurements are awarded and managed. our industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices as a result of an increased focus on affordability, efficiencies, and recovery of costs, among other items, and a reprioritization of available defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. for example, the dod's better buying power initiative continues to evolve in its efforts to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, refocus priorities and enhance business practices used by the dod, including those used to procure goods, services and solutions from defense contractors. in addition, the dcma has implemented cost recovery initiatives designed to prioritize efforts to recover costs and close open audits. as a result of certain of these initiatives, we have experienced and may continue to experience an increased number of audits and/or a lengthened period of time required to close open audits. more recently, the thresholds for certain allowable costs are being challenged and refined. these efforts have had, and we expect them to continue to have, a significant impact on the contracting environment in which we do business. in support of the implementation of the better buying power initiative, the u.s. government is issuing new regulations and requirements that are shifting additional responsibility and performance risks to the contractor. while the impact to our business as a result of these changes remains uncertain, our business and industry could be materially adversely affected. 9 table of contents northrop grumman corporation competition within our markets and an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities or be willing to accept more risk or lower margins in competing for contracts. we have seen, and anticipate that we will continue to see, increased competition in some of our core markets, especially as a result of the reduction in budgets for many u.s. government agencies and fewer new program starts. changes in u.s. defense spending may limit certain future market opportunities. we are facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from u.s., foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, may turn to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work, or may utilize small business contractors or determine to source work internally rather than hiring a contractor. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we will experience declines in revenues and market share, which would negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we also are seeing an increasing number of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. bid protests could result in significant expense to the company, contract modifications or the award decision being overturned and loss of the contract award. even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of an award, the resolution can extend the time until the contract activity can begin, and delay earnings. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and new technologies and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. many of the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. the product, program and service needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our ability to develop and market our products and services, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. if we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant amount of future business to our competitors, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain market share. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skills and/or security clearances. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees. failure to maintain a qualified workforce would result in difficulty in performing under our contracts. approximately 3,300 of our 68,100 employees are covered by an aggregate of 17 collective bargaining agreements, and we expect to negotiate or re-negotiate renewals for three of our collective bargaining agreements in 2013 . collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years, and are subject to renegotiation upon expiration. we may experience difficulties with renewals and renegotiations of existing collective bargaining agreements. if we experience such difficulties, we could incur additional expenses and may be subject to work stoppages. any such expenses or delays could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and innovative products and services, which are applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, inability to achieve learning curve assumptions, manufacturing materials or components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. in addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. 10 table of contents northrop grumman corporation certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period of time. under such terms, we could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and/or collected. we have not experienced any material losses in the last decade in connection with such contract performance incentive provisions. however, if we were to experience launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the future, for example, such events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts that do not result in increased contract value exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. this cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase or initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost were incorrect. the cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. reasons for cost growth may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, technical or quality issues, the timeliness and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance and quality of their products, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, and natural disasters. further, items affecting our contract value may include the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. a significant change in estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our risk varies with the type of contract. due to their nature, firm fixed-price contracts inherently have more risk than cost type contracts. in 2012, approximately 44 percent of our annual revenues were derived from fixed-price contracts. we typically enter into fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably estimated based on experience. in addition, our contracts contain provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. should the terms specified in our contracts not be met, then profitability may be reduced or a loss may be incurred. fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of our fixed-price contracts and inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. as work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are generally reduced. while management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price development contracts, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. other contracts are also subject to risk, for example, under a fixed price incentive contract, the allowable costs incurred by the contractor are paid up to a ceiling, which can affect profitability. further, under a cost type contract, the allowable costs incurred by the contractor are also subject to reimbursement plus a fee. we often enter into cost type contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges. these cost type programs typically have award or incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods. in these cases, the associated financial risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. when agreeing to contractual terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. these assumptions and projections assess the cost, productivity and availability of labor, future levels of business base, complexity of the work to be performed, cost and availability of materials, impact of potential delays in performance and timing of product deliveries. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. incentives, awards or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. suppliers' assertions are also assessed and considered in estimating costs and profit rates. because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon the profitability of one or more of the affected contracts and our performance. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. 11 table of contents northrop grumman corporation our earnings and margins depend, in part, on subcontractor performance as well as raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials and major components for our products and rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. disruptions or performance problems caused by our subcontractors and vendors could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. our ability to perform our obligations on time as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of the vendors or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. our costs may increase over the term of our contracts. through cost escalation provisions contained in some of our u.s. government contracts, we may be protected from increases in costs to the extent that the increases in our costs are in line with industry indices. however, the difference in basis between our actual costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty even with these provisions. a significant delay in supply deliveries of our key raw materials or components required in our production processes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. there are currently several components for which there may only be one supplier. if a sole source supplier cannot meet our needs, we may be unable to find a suitable alternative. consistent with the industry's efforts, our procurement practices are intended to reduce the likelihood of our procurement of counterfeit parts or materials. if we are unable to procure needed materials, components or parts, or if the parts we procure are counterfeit, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. changes in economic conditions, as well as changes in the defense budget, can adversely affect the ability of our subcontractors and suppliers to perform and further increase this risk. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill and other long-lived assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. goodwill accounts for approximately half of our recorded total assets. we test goodwill amounts for impairment at least annually and consider whether an interim test is required if we believe potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. we face continued uncertainty in our business environment due to the substantial fiscal and economic challenges facing the u.s. government, our primary customer, including the potential for sequestration and issues surrounding the national debt ceiling. potential contract cancellations, modifications or terminations may arise from resolution of these issues and could cause our revenues, profits and cash flows to be substantially lower than our current projections. in addition, market-based inputs to the calculations in the impairment test, such as weighted average cost of capital and terminal value (based on market comparisons) could also be negatively impacted. such circumstances may result in an impairment of our goodwill. further, the carrying values of our reporting units are significantly influenced by a number of factors including the discount rate used to determine our net pension liability. therefore an increase in the discount rate on our pension liability in 2013 or beyond could result in an impairment of goodwill absent any changes discussed above. we continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets. as part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, acquire an interest in a business. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates and we may experience unforeseen issues that adversely affect the value of our goodwill or other long-lived assets. 12 table of contents northrop grumman corporation our international business exposes us to additional risks. our international business remains subject to numerous political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. our international business is subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act and certain other anti-corruption laws, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. failure by us, our employees, or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on us. changes in regulations, political environments or security risks may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets, including those regarding investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. our international business may also be impacted by changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets and may be further impacted by global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. the services and products we provide internationally, including those provided by subcontractors, are sometimes in countries with unstable governments, in areas of military conflict or at military installations. this increases the risk of an incident resulting in harm or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties or damage to our products. we maintain insurance and take other steps to mitigate the risk and potential liabilities related to our international operations, but these steps may not be adequate to prevent loss or to cover resulting claims and liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs (see additional discussion of possible inadequacy of our insurance coverage below). in addition, any accidents or incidents that occur in connection with our international operations could result in negative publicity for the company, which may adversely affect our reputation and make it more difficult for us to compete for future contracts or attract and retain employees or result in the loss of existing and future contracts. the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented extensive policies, procedures, training and other compliance controls to prevent misconduct by employees, agents or others with whom we are doing business that would violate the applicable laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing improper payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition and data privacy. however, we cannot ensure that we will prevent all such misconduct committed by our employees, agents or others with whom we are doing business, and the risk of improper conduct may increase in the current environment. such improper actions could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension and debarment, which could negatively impact our reputation and ability to conduct business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 13 table of contents northrop grumman corporation our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including physical and cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as a defense contractor, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information; threats to the safety of our directors, officers, and employees; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts. although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security threats from materializing. if any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information or capabilities, harm to personnel or infrastructure, or damage to our reputation, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, denial of service attacks, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. these events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. we also manage information technology systems for various customers and other third parties. while we operate under information security policies and procedures for managing these systems, we generally face similar cybersecurity threats for these systems as for our own. unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns and other actions. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require significant operating and capital costs. environmental laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may limit our operations or require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration. the listing could continue until the epa concludes that the cause of the violation had been corrected. if we were listed on the excluded parties list it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. listed facilities generally cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract until the violation is corrected. the adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, sanctions or penalties, could negatively impact our ability to recover such costs under previously priced contracts or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 14 table of contents northrop grumman corporation we are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us. the size, nature and complexity of our business make us highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are and may become subject to various environmental claims, income tax matters, compliance matters, claims, investigations, and administrative, civil or criminal litigation, which could divert financial and management resources and result in fines, penalties, compensatory or treble damages or non-monetary relief. government regulations also provide that certain allegations against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of export privileges for the company or one or more of its components. suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company because of the company's reliance on government contracts and authorizations. investigations, claims or litigation, if ultimately resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. any investigation, claim, or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. we may be unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property, and we license certain intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally holds licenses to certain intellectual property that we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use certain such intellectual property. the u.s. government appears to be asserting or seeking to assert more extensive intellectual property rights. our intellectual property is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. we also rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as through other measures. these agreements and other measures may not provide adequate protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event of an infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management's attention away from other aspects of our business. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. in some instances, we have licensed the proprietary intellectual property of others, but we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. if we are unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, against claims by the u.s. government or others our business could be adversely affected. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters and other factors that could adversely affect our profitability and our overall financial position. we have significant operations located in regions of the u.s. that may be exposed to earthquakes, damaging storms, and other natural disasters, including environmental disasters. although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. if insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms are unavailable or insufficient to recover all costs, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform under a contract. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural and environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on the prime contract. this could reduce our profitability due to damages or other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor or from the customer, could result in a termination of the prime contract and could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. natural disasters could also disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, including computer and internet operation and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. these disruptions could cause adverse effects on our profitability and performance. 15 table of contents northrop grumman corporation our insurance coverage, customer indemnifications or other liability protections may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of or be unable to pay for material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial position. we endeavor to obtain insurance agreements from established markets to cover significant risks and liabilities (including, for example, natural disasters and product liability). not every risk or liability can be insured, and, for risks that are insurable, the policy limits and terms of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. even if insurance coverage is available, we may not be able to obtain it at a price or on terms acceptable to us. disputes with insurance carriers over policy terms or the insolvency of one or more of our insurers may significantly affect the amount or timing of cash flows and, if litigation over coverage terms with the insurer becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in some circumstances we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers through contractual provisions, laws, regulations or otherwise. however, these protections are typically subject to certain terms or limitations and may not be sufficient to cover all losses or liabilities incurred. anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, spin-offs or strategic alliances may not be realized. as part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, merge with or acquire businesses, dispose of or spin-off businesses, form joint ventures or create strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying products, capabilities or technologies, the management of the operations and market conditions following these transactions. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges, liabilities, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets, guarantees, partner performance and indemnifications. divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through guarantees, indemnifications, or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. although we have established procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful. market volatility and adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our suppliers' ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers. a tightening of credit could adversely affect our suppliers' ability to obtain financing. delays in suppliers' ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could cause us to be unable to meet our contract obligations and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay or the need for us to provide other supplemental means to support our existing suppliers. pension and medical expenses associated with our retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions, future investment performance of plan assets, future trends in health care costs and legislative or other regulatory actions. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon our various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. in addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. variances from these estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. additionally, due to government regulations, pension plan cost recoveries under our government contracts occur in different periods from when those pension costs are recognized for financial statement purposes or when pension funding is made. these timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. in december 2011, the cost accounting rules were revised in order to partially harmonize the measurement and period of assignment of defined benefit pension plan costs allocable to u.s. government contracts and the minimum required contribution under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), as amended by the pension protection act (ppa) of 2006. we anticipate that this rule will better align, but not eliminate, mismatches between erisa funding requirements and cas pension costs for u.s. government cas covered contracts. 16 table of contents northrop grumman corporation unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in applicable domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. deferred tax assets are required to be measured at the statutory tax rate currently in effect, therefore a change in the u.s. corporate tax rate would result in a remeasurement of our net deferred tax asset through the income tax provision. the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in our tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial reporting income and taxable income, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and significantly affect our income tax expense, profitability and cash flow. our nuclear-related operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks. our nuclear-related operations subject us to various risks, including potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health that may result from nuclear-related operations and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials. we are also subject to reputational harm and potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident, whether or not it is within our control. the u.s. government and prime contractors provide certain indemnity protection under certain of our contracts pursuant to, or in connection with, public law 85-804 and the price-anderson nuclear industries indemnity act for certain nuclear-related risks. if there was a nuclear incident and that indemnity protection was not available to cover our losses and liabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. if all or any portion of the spin-off of our former shipbuilding business or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off transaction are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax may incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in connection with the spin-off of our former shipbuilding business, we received a letter ruling from the irs and an opinion of counsel confirming that we and our shareholders would not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the merger, the internal reorganization or the distribution, except that our shareholders who receive cash in lieu of fractional shares would recognize gain or loss with respect to such cash. the ruling and the opinion relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us and hii regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause any of the factual statements or representations in the irs ruling or the opinion to be incomplete or untrue at the time of the spin-off transaction. nevertheless, if the irs determines that any of the factual statements or representations that the irs ruling or the opinion was based on were incomplete or untrue, or if certain facts or circumstances upon which the irs ruling or the opinion was based were materially different from those at the time of the spin-off, we and our shareholders may not be able to rely on the irs ruling or the opinion of counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. even if the spin-off transaction otherwise qualifies as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the internal reorganization and distribution may be taxable to us (but not to our shareholders) if certain events occur, including, if before march 31, 2013 there are one or more acquisitions (including issuances) of the stock of either us or hii, representing 50% or more of the then-outstanding stock of either corporation and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution; we cease to engage appropriately in the conduct of a substantial part of our existing business; or, we or hii repurchase shares in excess of specified levels before march 31, 2013. if such tax were incurred, the tax liability would be substantial. hii has agreed not to undertake transactions that would reasonably be expected to trigger such tax, and we intend to avoid any such transactions. 17 table of contents northrop grumman corporation the spin-off of our former shipbuilding business may expose us to potential claims and liabilities. in connection with the spin-off transaction, we entered into a number of agreements with hii setting forth certain rights and obligations of the parties after the separation. for example, under the separation and distribution agreement, from and after the spin-off transaction, each of hii and northrop grumman is generally responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses that it owns and operates following the consummation of the spin-off. it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us and hii, and require that we assume responsibility for certain obligations allocated to hii (for example, tax and/or environmental liabilities), particularly if hii were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform such obligations. in addition, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities or obligations for which hii has agreed to be responsible and/or to indemnify us, directly or indirectly. the indemnity related rights we have under our agreements with hii may not be sufficient to protect us against such liabilities. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from hii or the u.s. government any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be required to record these losses ourselves until such time as the indemnity contribution is paid. in addition, certain indemnities that we may be required to provide hii are not subject to a cap, may be significant, and could negatively impact our business. these risks could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to market risk with respect to our portfolio of trading and available-for-sale marketable securities with a fair value of $262 million at december 31, 2012 . interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to our holdings of cash and cash equivalents of $3.9 billion at december 31, 2012 , and we are also exposed to interest rate risk on variable-rate short-term credit facilities for which there were no borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2012 . at december 31, 2012 , we have $3.9 billion of long-term debt, primarily consisting of fixed rate debt, with a fair value of approximately $4.8 billion . derivatives we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. from time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2012 , we have no interest rate swap agreements in effect. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risk with respect to our foreign operations. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to manage a portion of the exchange rate risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2012 , foreign currency forward contracts with a notional amount of $144 million were outstanding. inflation risk we have generally been able to anticipate increases in costs when pricing our contracts. bids for longer-term firm fixed-price contracts typically include labor and other cost escalations in amounts that historically have been sufficient to cover cost increases over the period of performance. a 10 percent change in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material impact to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 41risk factors 8 the company originally was formed in hawthorne, california in 1939, as northrop aircraft incorporated and was reincorporated in delaware in 1985, as northrop corporation. northrop aircraft incorporated was a principal developer of the flying wing technology, including the b-2 stealth bomber. the company developed into one of the largest defense contractors in the world through a series of acquisitions, as well as organic growth. in 1994, we acquired grumman corporation (grumman), after which time the company was renamed northrop grumman corporation. grumman was a premier military aircraft systems integrator and builder of the lunar module that first delivered men to the surface of the moon. in 1996, we acquired the defense and electronics businesses of westinghouse electric corporation (westinghouse), a world leader in the development and production of sophisticated radar and other electronic systems for the nation's defense, civil aviation, and other international and domestic applications. in 2001, we acquired litton industries, a global electronics and information technology company, and one of the nation's leading full service shipbuilders. in 2002, we acquired trw inc. (trw), a leading developer of military and civil space systems and satellite payloads, as well as a leading global integrator of complex, mission-enabling systems and services. effective as of march 31, 2011, the company completed the spin-off to its shareholders of huntington ingalls industries, inc. (hii). hii operates our former shipbuilding business, which was acquired in 2001, through the acquisition of newport news shipbuilding and a portion of the litton acquisition. as a result of the spin-off, assets, liabilities and results of operations for the former shipbuilding segment have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 for further information. organization from time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses and realign contracts, programs or business areas among and within our operating segments, such as where they possess similar customers, expertise, and capabilities. internal realignments are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance development and delivery of products and services. the operating results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes made through december 31, 2013 . we are currently aligned into four operating segments: aerospace systems, electronic systems, information systems and technical services. see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 for further information. aerospace systems aerospace systems, headquartered in redondo beach, california, is a leader in the design, development, integration and production of manned aircraft, unmanned systems, spacecraft, high-energy laser systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems. aerospace systems' customers, primarily u.s. government agencies, use these systems in mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (isr), communications, battle management, strike operations, electronic warfare, earth observation, satellite communications, space science and space exploration. the segment consists of four business areas: unmanned systems, military aircraft systems, space systems, and strategic programs &amp; technology. unmanned systems - designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates isr unmanned systems for tactical and strategic systems. key isr programs include the rq-4 global hawk reconnaissance system, a proven high-altitude long-endurance system providing near real-time high resolution imagery of large geographical areas; the triton - 1 - northrop grumman corporation aircraft system providing real-time isr over vast ocean and coastal regions; the trans-atlantic nato alliance ground surveillance system for multinational theater operations, peacekeeping missions, and disaster relief efforts; the fire scout aircraft system providing unprecedented situational awareness and precision targeting support; and the navy unmanned combat air system for the demonstration unmanned combat air vehicle for carrier based operations. military aircraft systems - designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne c4isr, electronic warfare mission systems, and long range strike and tactical aircraft systems. key airborne c4isr programs include the e-2d advanced hawkeye and joint surveillance target attack radar system (jstars). electronic warfare includes the ea-18g growler and ea-6b prowler airborne electronic attack weapon systems in addition to the design, development, and integration of laser weapon systems for air, sea, and ground platforms. this business area also designed, developed and manufactured the b-2 spirit bomber and now provides sustainment and upgrade services for the b-2, the nation's most advanced long range strike aircraft system. tactical aircraft includes the design, development, manufacture and integration of f/a-18 aft sections and f-35 center sections. space systems - designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems, sensors and communications payloads in support of space science and c4isr. key programs include the james webb space telescope (jwst), a large infrared telescope being built for nasa that will be deployed in space to study the origins of the universe; advanced extremely high frequency (aehf) payloads providing survivable, protected communications to u.s. forces; and restricted programs. strategic programs &amp; technology - creates and matures advanced technologies and innovative concepts to provide affordable solutions addressing current and future customer needs. the strategic programs &amp; technology business area maintains a broad portfolio of contracts ranging from development of components to prototypes to initial operational systems across the air, land and space domains. electronic systems electronic systems, headquartered in linthicum, maryland, is a leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of solutions for sensing, understanding, anticipating and controlling the operating environment for our global military, civil and commercial customers. electronic systems provides a variety of defense electronics and systems, airborne fire control radars, situational awareness systems, early warning systems, airspace management systems, navigation systems, communications systems, marine power and propulsion systems, space systems and logistics services. the segment consists of three business areas: intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance &amp; targeting systems, land &amp; self protection systems, and navigation &amp; maritime systems. intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance &amp; targeting systems - delivers products and services for space satellite applications, airborne and ground-based surveillance, multi-sensor processing, analysis and dissemination for combat units and national agencies, both domestic and international. these systems provide battle space awareness, missile defense, command and control, combat avionics (fire control radars, multi-function apertures and pods), airborne electro-optical/infrared (eo/ir) targeting systems and postal automation systems. key programs include airborne fire control radars such as the scalable agile beam radar (sabr), which provides affordable active electronically scanned array (aesa) capabilities for domestic and international fighters; the f-35 fire control radar, a multi-function aesa radar for the u.s. armed forces and a large number of international partners; eo/ir systems such as the litening targeting pod and the distributed aperture system (das), a 360 degree spherical situational awareness system; airborne surveillance radars such as the multirole electronically scanned array (mesa) for airborne early warning &amp; control (aew&amp;c), which provides air-to-air and air-to-surface coverage; and space systems such as the space-based infrared system (sbirs), which provides data for missile surveillance, missile defense, technical intelligence and battlespace characterization. land &amp; self protection systems - delivers products, systems and services that support ground-based, helicopter and fixed wing platforms (manned and unmanned) with sensor and protection systems. a major product line of this business area consists of systems that perform threat detection and countermeasures that defeat infrared and radio frequency (rf) guided missile and tracking systems. this business area also provides integrated electronic warfare capability, communications and intelligence systems, unattended ground sensors, automatic test equipment, advanced threat simulators, ground-based air defense and multi-function radars, situational awareness systems and laser/electro-optical systems. key programs include the ground/air task oriented radar (g/ator), which is a ground-based multi-mission radar designed to detect and track a wide variety of threats; the tps-78 ground-based radar, which provides air defense and air surveillance for the global market; the large aircraft infrared countermeasures (laircm), which is an infrared countermeasure system designed to protect aircraft against man- - 2 - northrop grumman corporation portable (shoulder-launched) infrared-guided surface-to-air missiles; and the an/apr-39, which provides rapid identification and continuous radar threat warning for today's complex battlefields. navigation &amp; maritime systems - delivers products and services to domestic and international defense, civil and commercial customers supporting smart navigation, shipboard radar surveillance, ship control, machinery control and integrated combat management systems for naval surface ships; high-resolution undersea sensors for mine hunting, situational awareness and other applications; unmanned marine vehicles; shipboard missile and encapsulated payload launch systems, propulsion and power generation systems, nuclear reactor instrumentation and control and acoustic sensors for submarines and aircraft carriers; inertial navigation systems for all domains (air, land, sea, and space); and embedded global positioning systems. key programs include the an/spq-9b anti-ship missile defense radar, which provides the us navy's cruisers and destroyers with situational awareness and contact information from aircraft, cruise missiles, surface vessels and periscope detection; inertial navigation and positioning products for a range of platforms including ships, aircraft, spacecraft and weapons systems. in addition to the product and service lines discussed above, our electronic systems segment also includes an advanced concepts &amp; technologies division (ac&amp;td), which develops next-generation systems to position the segment in key developing markets. ac&amp;td focuses on understanding customer mission needs; conceiving affordable, innovative and open solutions; and demonstrating the readiness and effectiveness of electronic systems' products. ac&amp;td focuses on the following enterprise-wide and cross cutting technology development thrust areas: rf systems; eo/ir systems; multi-function systems; modular open systems architectural approaches and designs; precision navigation and timing capabilities; and secure and trusted solutions. information systems information systems, headquartered in mclean, virginia, is a leading global provider of advanced solutions for the dod, national intelligence, federal civilian and state agencies, commercial and international customers. products and services focus on the fields of command and control (c2), communications, cybersecurity, air and missile defense, intelligence processing, civil security, health information technology, government support systems and systems engineering and integration. within c4isr, we are a major end-to-end provider of net-enabled c2, net-enabled battle management, communications and network gateway systems, mission-enabling solutions and decision superiority. our systems are installed in operational and command centers world-wide and across dod services, joint commands and the international security community. we also deliver intelligence-related systems and services to the u.s. government in several mission areas including signals intelligence (sigint) systems, geospatial intelligence and multi-source intelligence data fusion. cybersecurity offerings span intelligence, defense, federal, civilian, state and international customers, providing dynamic cyber defense and specialized cyber systems and services in support of critical government missions. applications are predominantly for high end intelligence and defense missions, but also include health, homeland security, public safety, civil, financial and commercial applications. most intelligence community programs are restricted. defense and civil cybersecurity customers include the dod, intelligence community, department of homeland security, centers for disease control and select state and international agencies. the segment consists of four business areas: cyber solutions, defense systems, federal &amp; defense technologies, and intelligence systems. cyber solutions - provides cyber defense, exploitation and full spectrum solutions that address cybersecurity threats, cyber mission management, cross function/agency cyber management and special cyber systems that target our nation's adversaries. defense systems - is a major end-to-end provider of net-enabled c2, communications, networks and gateways, decision support systems, command center integration, combat support systems and critical infrastructure protection systems. federal &amp; defense technologies - is an integrator of air and missile defense systems and a major provider of net-enabled battle management c4 systems, defense enterprise information technology (it) and civilian it solutions. intelligence systems - is focused on the delivery of intelligence-related systems and services in airborne reconnaissance, sigint, geospatial and multi-source data fusion. key programs include the joint national integration center research and development contract (jrdc), which supports the technical infrastructure, modeling and simulation, test and evaluation, and management of the missile defense agency network at multiple sites; the battlefield airborne communications node (bacn), a high-altitude, - 3 - northrop grumman corporation airborne communications and information gateway system that provides situational awareness and c2 coordination between warfighters and commanders; and the consolidated afloat networks and enterprise services (canes) program, which consolidates us navy c4 intelligence, computing and network infrastructure for ships, submarines and shore c2 facilities. technical services technical services, headquartered in herndon, virginia, is a leader in innovative and affordable logistics, modernization and sustainment support and also provides an array of other advanced technology and engineering services, including space, missile defense, nuclear security, training and simulation. the segment consists of three business areas: integrated logistics and modernization, defense and government services, and training solutions. integrated logistics and modernization - provides complete life cycle support and weapon system sustainment and modernization products and services, and provides direct support to warfighters while delivering aircraft and subsystem maintenance, repair and overhaul (mro). competencies include aircraft and electronics sustaining engineering, supply chain management services, manned and unmanned weapons systems deployed logistics support, field services and on-going maintenance and technical assistance, and delivering rapid response in support of global customers. key programs include kc-10 contractor logistics support (cls), which provides total weapons systems cls to the air force for the entire fleet of 59 kc-10 aircraft; uk airborne warning and control system (awacs), which provides through life management of the uk royal air force fleet of e-3d awacs aircraft; and aaq24 large aircraft infrared counter measures (laircm), which provides repair, testing, component spare procurement, logistics, and data collection related to directional infrared counter measures systems used on multiple fixed and rotary wing aircraft. defense and government services - provides sustainment and modernization of tactical vehicles, high technology and engineering services in the areas of nuclear security, space and launch services, civil engineering and military range-sensor-instrumentation operations. key programs include intercontinental ballistic missile (icbm) systems, which provides systems engineering and integration for the land-based leg of the united states nuclear deterrent force; fort irwin logistics services support; and combined tactical training ranges (cttr), which provides engineering, operations and maintenance support to facilitate a live and virtual multi-service aircrew tactical training requirement as defined by the fleet response training plan (frtp). training solutions - provides realistic and comprehensive training through live, virtual and constructive domains, ranging from senior military leadership to warfighters, for both u.s. and international peacekeeping forces. the business area designs and develops future conflict training scenarios and provides warfighters and allies with live, virtual and constructive training programs. the business area has supported the training of america's senior battlefield commanders for every major contingency beginning with gulf war i through operations today. the business area also offers innovative and diverse training applications ranging from battle command to professional military education. key programs include the saudi arabian national guard (sang), which provides equipment fielding, training and maintenance, simulator training and operations, tactical exercise development, logistics and operations support and english language training to the saudi arabian national guard; the joint coalition warfighting center (jwfc), which designs and executes distributed joint and multinational exercises and training events, joint doctrine development and joint training analysis for the joint and coalition warfighting center; and the mission command training program (mctp), the army's premier leadership and staff training exercise program at the tactical and operational level. selected financial data and segment operating results for a more complete understanding of our business, see selected financial data in part ii, item 6. for a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see segment operating results in part ii, item 7, and note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. customer concentration our primary customer is the u.s. government. revenue from the u.s. government (which excludes foreign military sales - a method to sell u.s. defense equipment and services to foreign governments through the dod) accounted for 86 percent or more of total revenues in each of the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . international sales (which include foreign military sales) accounted for $2.5 billion , $2.1 billion and $2.1 billion , or 10 percent , 8 percent and 8 percent , of total revenue for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. no single program accounted for more than ten percent of total revenue during any period presented. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. - 4 - northrop grumman corporation competitive conditions we compete with many companies in the defense, intelligence and federal markets. airbus group, bae systems, boeing, booz allen hamilton, finmeccanica, general dynamics, l-3 communications, leidos, lockheed martin, raytheon and thales are some of our primary competitors. key characteristics of our industry include long operating cycles and intense competition, which is evident through the number of bid protests (competitor protests of u.s. government procurement awards) and the number of competitors bidding on program opportunities. it is common in the defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, become a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. it is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa. seasonality no material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. backlog total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is authorized and appropriated) and unfunded backlog. unexercised contract options and indefinite delivery indefinite quantity (idiq) contracts are not included in backlog until the time the option or idiq task order is exercised or awarded. for multi-year service contracts with non-u.s. government customers having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. backlog is converted into sales as costs are incurred or deliveries are made. at december 31, 2013 , total backlog was $37.0 billion , compared with $40.8 billion at the end of 2012 . of the backlog at december 31, 2013 , approximately $19.6 billion is expected to be converted into sales in 2014 . for backlog by segment, see backlog in part ii, item 7. research and development our research and development activities primarily include independent research and development (ir&amp;d) efforts related to u.s. government programs. company-sponsored ir&amp;d efforts are included in general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to u.s. government contracts, while customer-sponsored research and development efforts are charged directly to the related contracts. company-sponsored ir&amp;d expenses totaled $507 million , $520 million and $543 million in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. patents we routinely apply for and own a number of u.s. and foreign patents related to the products and services we provide. in addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally holds licenses to patents developed in the performance of u.s. government contracts and may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by these patents. although these intellectual property rights are important to the operation of our business, no existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would, in our opinion, have a material adverse effect on our financial position, annual results of operations and/or cash flows. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. raw materials we have not experienced significant delays in the supply or availability of raw materials, nor have we experienced a significant price increase for raw materials, that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, annual results of operations and/or cash flows. see risk factors in part i, item 1a and overview in part ii, item 7. employee relations we believe that we maintain good relations with our 65,300 employees, of which approximately 3,300 are covered by 16 collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated renewals of three of our collective bargaining agreements in 2013 and expect to negotiate renewals of two of our collective bargaining agreements in 2014 . these negotiations did not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, annual results of operations and/or cash flows. for risks associated with collective bargaining agreements, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. - 5 - northrop grumman corporation regulatory matters government contract regulation our businesses are affected by numerous laws and regulations, including those relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate our contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. if a u.s. government contract were to be terminated for convenience, we generally would be protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract and profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. termination resulting from our default may expose us to liability and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for other contracts. the u.s. government also has the ability to stop work under a contract for a limited period of time for its convenience. in the event of a stop work order, we generally would be protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract to date and for costs associated with the temporary stoppage of work on the contract. however, such temporary stoppages and delays could introduce inefficiencies for which we may not be able to negotiate full recovery from the u.s. government, and could ultimately result in termination for convenience or reduced future orders on certain contracts. additionally, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our u.s. government contracts, even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. certain programs with the u.s. government that are prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in detail are referred to as restricted in this form 10-k. the consolidated financial statements and financial information in this form 10-k reflect the operating results of our entire company, including such restricted programs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (gaap). contracts we generate the majority of our business from long-term contracts with the u.s. government for development, production, and support activities. due to the long-term nature of our contracts with the u.s. government and the products and services covered by these contracts, we generally recognize revenue using the percentage of completion method of accounting. under the percentage of completion method of accounting, revenues are generally recognized as costs are incurred (cost-to-cost method) or as units are delivered (units-of-delivery method). unless otherwise specified in a contract, allowable and allocable costs are billed to contracts with the u.s. government under the requirements of the federal acquisition regulation (far) and cost accounting standards (cas) regulations. examples of costs incurred by us and not billed to the u.s. government in accordance with the requirements of the far and cas regulations include, but are not limited to, lobbying costs, certain legal costs, charitable donations, advertising costs and interest expense. our long-term contracts typically fall into one of two broad categories: cost-type contracts cost-type contracts include cost plus fixed fee, award fee, and incentive fee contracts. cost-type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs incurred plus a fee. cost-type contracts generally require that the contractor use its best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation. fees on cost-type contracts can be fixed in terms of dollar value or percentage of costs. award and incentive fees are based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality, and technical performance. award fees are determined and earned based on customer evaluation of the company's performance against negotiated criteria, and are intended to provide motivation for excellence in contract performance. incentive fees that are based on cost provide for an initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later, typically using a formula to measure performance against the associated criteria, based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs. award and incentive fees that can reasonably be estimated and are deemed reasonably assured are recorded over the performance period of the contract. fixed-price contracts a firm fixed-price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is a pre-determined, negotiated amount and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor, absent changes in scope by the customer. certain fixed-price incentive fee contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs plus a fee up to a ceiling amount, typically through a cost-sharing limit that affects profitability. these types of fixed-price incentive fee contracts effectively become firm fixed-price contracts once the cost-share limit is reached. time-and-materials contracts are considered fixed-price contracts as they specify a fixed hourly rate for each labor hour charged. - 6 - northrop grumman corporation the following table summarizes sales for the year ended december 31, 2013 , recognized by contract type and customer: ($ in millions) u.s. government other customers (1) total percent of total cost-type contracts $ 12,523 $ 476 $ 12,999 53 % fixed-price contracts 8,755 2,907 11,662 47 % total sales $ 21,278 $ 3,383 $ 24,661 100 % (1) other customer sales include foreign military sales. profit margins may vary materially depending on, among other things, the negotiated contract fee arrangements, the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. we monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to enhance consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with all applicable government regulations and laws. in addition, costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the u.s. government are routinely audited by the defense contract audit agency. environmental our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. the estimated cost to complete remediation is accrued when it is probable that the company will incur costs to address environmental impacts and the costs are estimable. to assess the potential impact on the company's financial statements, management estimates the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that could be incurred by the company, taking into account the facts currently available to the company regarding each site, as well as the current state of technology and prior experience. these estimates are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect changes in facts and circumstances. see risk factors in part i, item 1a, as well as note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. in 2009, we established a goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions over a five-year period through december 31, 2014. in 2010, we established goals for water usage and solid waste generation. we have exceeded our goal for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and are on track to achieve our goals on water usage and solid waste generation. we have incurred and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and satisfy green initiatives, including our goals. at this time, these costs have not had, and we do not expect that these costs will have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, annual results of operations and/or cash flows. executive officers see part iii, item 10, for information about our executive officers. available information our principal executive offices are located at 2980 fairview park drive, falls church, virginia 22042. our telephone number is (703) 280-2900 and our home page on the internet is www.northropgrumman.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and proxy statement for the annual shareholders' meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the securities and exchange commission (sec). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page of our web site. the sec also maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about sec registrants, including northrop grumman corporation. you may also obtain these materials at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you can obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. references to our web site and the sec's web site in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available - 7 - northrop grumman corporation through, such web sites. such information should not be considered a part of this report, unless otherwise expressly incorporated by reference in this report. item 1a. risk factors our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. we urge you to consider carefully the risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report as the outcome of one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for a substantial portion of our business. changes in this customer's priorities and spending could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our primary customer is the u.s. government, from which we derived more than 86 percent of our total revenues during each of the past several years. the u.s. government is implementing significant reductions in government spending and other significant program changes. we cannot predict the impact on existing, follow-on, replacement or future programs from potential changes in priorities due to changes in defense spending levels, military strategy and planning and/or changes in social-political priorities. a shift in government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for its convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government's convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. termination by the u.s. government of a contract due to our default could require us to pay for re-procurement costs in excess of the original contract price, net of the value of work accepted from the original contract, as well as other damages. termination of a contract due to our default could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for other contracts. the u.s. government also has the ability to stop work under a contract for a limited period of time for its convenience. it is possible that the u.s. government could invoke this ability across a limited or broad number of contracts in this challenging fiscal environment. in the event of a stop work order, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract to date and for costs associated with the temporary stoppage of work on the contract. however, such temporary stoppages and delays could introduce inefficiencies for which we may not be able to negotiate full recovery from the u.s. government, and could ultimately result in termination for convenience or reduced future orders on certain contracts. in this challenging environment, our business and industry could face terminations, change orders and stop work orders, which depending on their volume could further delay and jeopardize the ability to recover costs. significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs and u.s. government funding more broadly may negatively impact our business and programs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. u.s. government programs are subject to annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for many programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though the program performance period may extend over several years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are obligated to the contract. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual budget process ultimately approved by congress or in separate supplemental appropriations or continuing resolutions, as applicable. the impact, severity and duration of the current u.s. economic situation and plans adopted by the u.s. government, along with pressures on, and uncertainty surrounding, the federal budget and the permissible federal debt limit, could adversely affect the funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. in the event government funding for our significant programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract - 8 - northrop grumman corporation under such programs may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government or the prime contractor, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. part i of the budget control act of 2011 (budget control act) provided for a reduction in planned defense budgets of at least $487 billion over a ten year period. part ii mandated substantial additional reductions through a process known as "sequestration," which took effect march 1, 2013, and resulted in approximately $40 billion of additional reductions to the fy 2013 defense budget. in march 2013, the president signed into law the consolidated and further continuing appropriations act (2013) which included specific appropriations for our major federal customers, including the dod, subject to further reductions or sequestration under the budget control act. in october 2013, congress passed a continuing resolution to fund the government through january 15, 2014 (subsequently extended through january 18, 2014), and suspended the statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt (the debt ceiling) through february 7, 2014. in december 2013, congress passed the national defense authorization act (ndaa) for fy 2014. congress also passed, and the president signed into law, the bipartisan budget act of 2013, which set discretionary spending levels for fy 2014 and fy 2015. the legislation provides for additional budget funding of approximately $63 billion over fy 2014 and fy 2015. the additional funding is expected to alleviate some budget cuts that would otherwise have been instituted through sequestration in fy 2014 and fy 2015, with approximately $45 billion (generally split equally between defense and non-defense spending) applied to fy 2014. on january 16, 2014, congress passed the consolidated appropriations act of 2014, providing for federal spending levels consistent with the bipartisan budget act of 2013. the president signed the legislation into law on january 17, 2014. the discretionary spending levels for fy 2014 total approximately $1.1 trillion, of which the defense spending level is $572 billion, comprised of $487 billion in base defense and $85 billion in overseas contingency operations (oco) funds. the president's budget request for fy 2015 is currently due to congress in february 2014. congressional appropriation and authorization of spending for fy 2015 and beyond, including defense spending, and the application of sequestration remain marked by significant debate and an uncertain schedule. congress and the administration also continue to debate the debt ceiling, among other fiscal issues, as they negotiate plans for long-term national fiscal policy. the outcome of these debates could have a significant impact on defense spending broadly and the company's programs in particular. if the existing debt ceiling is not raised, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our u.s. government contracts even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments. a debt ceiling breach could, among other impacts, have significant near and long-term consequences for our company, our employees, our suppliers and the defense industry. it could negatively affect the u.s. government's timely payment of our billings, result in delayed cash collections and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. the budget environment, including sequestration as currently mandated, remain a significant long-term risk. considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will unfold and what challenges budget reductions will present for the defense industry. we believe continued budget pressures will have serious negative consequences for the security of our country, the defense industrial base, including northrop grumman, and the customers, employees, suppliers, investors, and communities that rely on companies in the defense industrial base. although it is difficult to determine specific impacts, we expect that over the longer term, the budget environment may result in lower awards, revenues, profits and cash flows from our u.s. government contracts. members of congress continue to discuss various options to address sequestration in future budget planning, but we cannot predict the outcome of these efforts. it is likely budget and program decisions made in this environment will have long-term impacts on our company and the entire defense industry. long term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, budget cuts could adversely affect the viability of our subcontractors and suppliers, and our employee base. while we believe that our business is well-positioned in areas that the department of defense (dod) has indicated are areas of focus for future defense spending, the long-term impact of the budget control act, other defense spending cuts, and the ongoing fiscal debates remain uncertain and our business and industry could be materially adversely affected. - 9 - northrop grumman corporation as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to various procurement and other laws and regulations and could be adversely affected by changes in such laws and regulations or any negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. u.s. government contractors must comply with many significant procurement regulations and other specific legal requirements. these regulations and requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs and are regularly evolving. new laws, regulations or procurement requirements or changes to current ones (including, for example, regulations related to allowability of compensation costs, counterfeit parts, specialty metals and conflict minerals), can increase our costs and risks and reduce our profitability. we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa), defense contract management agency (dcma) and the dod inspector general. these agencies review performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. costs ultimately found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions, forfeiture of profits or suspension or debarment. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. we are from time to time subject to u.s. government investigations relating to our operations. we also are subject to and expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws, including but not limited to the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, cost accounting standards (cas), federal acquisition regulation (far), the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act and the foreign corrupt practices act. if we are found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts; contract modifications or termination; the loss of export privileges; the assessment of penalties, fines, or compensatory, treble or other damages; or suspension or debarment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our international business exposes us to additional risks. sales to customers outside the u.s. are an increasingly important component of our strategy. our international business is subject to numerous political and economic factors, legal requirements, cross-cultural considerations and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ in some respects from those associated with our u.s. business and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is subject to both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export controls, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, data protection, investment, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws, the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act, labor and employment, taxes, security restrictions and intellectual property. failure by us, our employees, or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. changes in regulations, political environments or security risks may affect our ability to conduct business in international markets. our international business may also be impacted by changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets and may be further impacted by global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for significant penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. the services and products we provide internationally, including those provided by subcontractors, are sometimes in countries with unstable governments and/or developing legal systems, in areas of military conflict or at military installations. this increases the risk of an incident resulting in harm or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties or damage to our products. it also exposes the company to additional financial, contractual and legal risks. - 10 - northrop grumman corporation we maintain insurance and take other steps to mitigate the risk and potential liabilities related to our international operations, but these steps may not be adequate to prevent loss or to cover resulting claims and liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs. in addition, any accidents or incidents that occur in connection with our international operations could result in negative publicity, which could adversely affect our reputation and make it more difficult for us to compete for future contracts or attract and retain employees or result in the loss of existing and future contracts. the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us. the size, nature and complexity of our business make us highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are and may become subject to various administrative, civil or criminal litigation, environmental claims, income tax matters, compliance matters, claims and investigations, which could divert financial and management resources and result in fines, penalties, compensatory, treble or other damages or non-monetary relief. government regulations also provide that certain allegations against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of export privileges for the company or one or more of its components. suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company because of our reliance on government contracts and authorizations. investigations, claims or litigation, if ultimately resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. any investigation, claim, or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented extensive policies, procedures, training and other compliance controls to prevent misconduct by employees, agents or others working on our behalf that would violate the applicable laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing improper payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition and data privacy. however, we cannot ensure that we will prevent all such misconduct committed by our employees, agents or others working on our behalf, and the risk of improper conduct may be expected to increase in the current environment and as we expand globally. such improper actions could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension and debarment, which could negatively impact our reputation and ability to conduct business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. competition within our markets and an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities or be willing to accept more risk or lower profitability in competing for contracts. we have seen, and anticipate we will continue to see, increased competition in some of our core markets, especially as a result of the reduction in budgets for many u.s. government agencies, fewer new program starts and an increased focus on affordability. changes in u.s. defense spending may limit certain future market opportunities. we are facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from u.s., foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, may turn to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work, or may utilize small business contractors or determine to source work internally rather than hiring a contractor. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we will experience declines in revenues and market share, which would negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we also are seeing an increasing number of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. bid protests could result in significant expense to the company, contract modifications or the award decision being overturned and loss of the contract award. even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of an award, the resolution can extend the time until the contract activity can begin, and delay earnings. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and new technologies and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of our customers. many of the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. the product, program and service needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our ability to develop and market our products and services and our ability to provide the people, - 11 - northrop grumman corporation technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. if we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant amount of future business to our competitors, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain market share. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skills and/or security clearances. if qualified personnel become scarce or difficult to attract or retain in our industry for compensation-related or other reasons, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain necessary employees. failure to maintain a qualified workforce would result in significant difficulty in performing under our contracts. approximately 3,300 of our 65,300 employees are covered by an aggregate of 16 collective bargaining agreements, and we expect to negotiate renewals of two of our collective bargaining agreements in 2014. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years, and are subject to renegotiation upon expiration. if we experience difficulties with renewals and renegotiations of existing collective bargaining agreements, we could incur additional expenses and may be subject to work stoppages. any such expenses or delays could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and innovative products and services, which are applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and intellectual property rights, labor, inability to achieve learning curve assumptions, manufacturing materials or components could prevent us from meeting requirements. in addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. among the factors that may affect revenue and profitability could be inaccurate cost estimates, design issues, unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period of time. under such terms, we could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and/or collected. we have not experienced any material losses in the last decade in connection with such contract performance incentive provisions. however, if we were to experience launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the future, for example, such events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts that do not result in increased contract value exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. this cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase or initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost were incorrect. the cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. reasons for cost growth may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, technical or quality issues, the costs, timeliness and availability of materials and components, issues with significant subcontractors (availability, performance, quality, financial strength), the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, the effect of any changes in law or regulation, and natural or environmental disasters. further, items affecting our contract value may include the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. a significant change in estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. - 12 - northrop grumman corporation our risk varies with the type of contract. due to their nature, fixed-price contracts inherently have more risk than cost type contracts. in 2013, approximately 47 percent of our annual revenues were derived from fixed-price contracts. we typically enter into fixed-price contracts where costs can be more reasonably estimated based on experience. in addition, our contracts contain provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. if the terms specified in our contracts are not met, our profitability may be reduced and we may incur a loss. fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of our fixed-price contracts. this type of work is inherently more uncertain as to future events than production contracts, and, as a result, there is typically more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. as work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are typically reduced. while management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price development contracts, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. other contracts are also subject to risk, for example, under a fixed-price incentive contract, the allowable costs incurred by the contractor are paid up to a ceiling, which can affect profitability. further, under a cost type contract, the allowable costs incurred by the contractor are also subject to reimbursement plus a fee. we often enter into cost type contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges. these cost type programs typically have award or incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods or towards the end of the contract. in these cases, the associated financial risks are primarily in recognizing profit, which ultimately may not be earned, or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. when agreeing to contractual terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. these assumptions and projections assess the cost, productivity and availability of labor, future levels of business base, complexity of the work to be performed, cost and availability of materials and components, impact of potential delays in performance and timing of product deliveries. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. incentives, awards or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. suppliers' assertions are also assessed and considered in estimating costs and profitability. because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could have a material adverse effect upon the profitability of one or more of the affected contracts and on our overall financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including physical and cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as a defense contractor, we face various cyber and other security threats, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information and networks; threats to the safety of our directors, officers and employees; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts. although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate the risk of these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient. these threats could lead to losses of sensitive information or capabilities, harm to personnel or infrastructure, and/or damage to our reputation. they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, disruption or denial of service attacks, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information (ours or that of our customers or partners), and corruption of data, networks or systems. these events, if not prevented or effectively mitigated, could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide cyber and information technology systems, products and services to various customers (government and commercial) and other third parties who also face these types of cybersecurity threats. our systems, products and - 13 - northrop grumman corporation services may themselves be subject to cybersecurity threats and/or they may not be able to detect or deter such threats to our customers, or effectively to mitigate resulting losses. these losses could adversely affect our customers and our company. they could result in damage to our reputation, loss of business and potential liability, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. changes to business practices for u.s. government contractors could have a significant adverse effect on current programs, potential new awards and the processes by which procurements are awarded and managed. our industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices as a result of, among other items, an increased focus on affordability, efficiencies, recovery of costs and a reprioritization of available defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. the dod continues to adjust its procurement practices, requirements criteria and source selection methodology in its ongoing efforts to reduce costs, gain efficiencies and enhance program management and control. further, the dcma/dcaa have implemented cost recovery/cost savings initiatives designed to prioritize efforts to recover costs. as a result of certain of these initiatives, we have experienced and may continue to experience an increased number of audits and/or a lengthened period of time required to close open audits. more recently, the thresholds for certain allowable costs, including compensation costs, have been significantly reduced; others are being challenged, debated and, in certain cases, modified. significant changes to the thresholds for allowable costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. these efforts have had, and we expect them to continue to have, a significant impact on the contracting environment in which we do business. in connection with these cost reduction initiatives, the u.s. government is also pursuing alternatives to shift additional responsibility and performance risks to the contractor. while the impact to our business as a result of these changes remains uncertain, our business and industry could be materially adversely affected. our earnings and profitability depend, in part, on subcontractor performance as well as raw material and component availability and pricing. adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our suppliers' ability to perform. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials and major components and subsystems for our products and to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies, provide intellectual property, and perform some of the services we provide to our customers. disruptions or performance problems caused by our subcontractors and suppliers could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. our ability to perform our obligations on time as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of our subcontractors or suppliers were unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. changes in economic conditions, including changes in defense budgets or credit availability, could adversely affect the financial stability of our subcontractors and suppliers and/or their ability to perform. the inability of our suppliers to perform could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay or the need for us to provide other supplemental means to support our existing suppliers. our costs may increase over the term of our contracts. through cost escalation provisions contained in some of our u.s. government contracts, we may be protected from increases in certain costs to the extent the increases in our costs are in line with the escalation provisions in those contracts. however, the difference in basis between our actual costs and these escalation provisions may expose us to cost growth even with these provisions. a significant delay in supply deliveries of our key raw materials, components or intellectual property required in our production processes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the customer. there are currently several components for which there may only be one supplier. if a sole source supplier cannot meet our needs, we may be unable to find a suitable alternative. consistent with the industry's efforts, our procurement practices are intended to reduce the likelihood of our procurement of conflict materials or counterfeit or unauthorized parts or materials. in some circumstances, we must rely on certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding the parts or materials we procure. if certifications received from our subcontractors or suppliers are inaccurate, if we are unable to procure needed materials, components or parts, or if the parts we procure are counterfeit or not authorized, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. - 14 - northrop grumman corporation changes in economic conditions, as well as changes in the defense budget, can adversely affect the ability of our subcontractors and suppliers to perform and further increase this risk. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill and other long-lived assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. goodwill accounts for approximately half of our total assets. we test goodwill amounts for impairment at least annually and consider whether an interim test is required if we believe potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. we face continued uncertainty in our business environment due to the substantial fiscal and economic challenges facing the u.s. government, our primary customer, including the impact of reductions to the defense budget and issues surrounding the national debt ceiling. if our contracts are cancelled, modified or terminated as a result of the resolution of these issues or otherwise, our revenues, profits and cash flows could be substantially lower than our current projections. in addition, market-based inputs to the calculations in the impairment test, such as weighted average cost of capital and terminal value (based on market comparisons) could be negatively impacted. such circumstances may result in an impairment of our goodwill. further, the carrying values of our reporting units are significantly influenced by a number of factors including the discount rate used to determine our net pension liability. therefore, the impact of changes in the discount rate on our pension liability could result in an impairment of goodwill absent any changes discussed above. we continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets. significant write-offs of goodwill or other long-lived assets could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. as part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, acquire an interest in a business. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates and we may experience unforeseen issues that adversely affect the value of our goodwill or other long-lived assets. unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns and other actions. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires, and is expected to continue to require, significant operating and capital costs. environmental laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. these laws and regulations may limit our operations or require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the environmental protection agency (epa) on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration. the listing could continue until the epa concludes that the cause of the violation has been corrected. because listed facilities generally cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract until the violation is corrected, if we were listed on the excluded parties list it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. the adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, sanctions or penalties, could negatively impact our ability to recover such costs under previously priced contracts or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we may be unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property, and we license certain intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally holds licenses to certain intellectual property that we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use certain such intellectual property, typically for government purposes. more recently, we believe the u.s. government has asserted or sought to obtain more extensive rights in intellectual property. the u.s. government's efforts could result in a decrease in our ability to control the use of certain of our intellectual property - 15 - northrop grumman corporation rights in a government contracting environment. our intellectual property is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. we also rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as through other measures. these agreements and other measures may not provide adequate protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event of an infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management's attention away from other aspects of our business. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. in some instances, we have licensed the proprietary intellectual property of others, but we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. if we are unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, against claims by the u.s. government or others, our business could be adversely affected. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property rights vary among countries and the protection provided to our intellectual property by these laws and foreign courts may not be the same as the remedies available under u.s. law. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters and environmental disasters that could adversely affect our profitability and our overall financial position. we have significant operations located in regions that may be exposed to earthquakes, damaging storms and other natural disasters. our business also may be subject to environmental disasters. although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. if insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms are unavailable or insufficient to recover all costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our subcontractors and suppliers are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform under a contract. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural and environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on the prime contract. damages or other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor or from the customer could reduce our profitability or result in a termination of the prime contract, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. natural and environmental disasters could also disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, including computer and internet operation and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. these disruptions could cause adverse effects on our profitability and performance. our insurance coverage, customer indemnifications or other liability protections may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of or be unable to pay for material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial position. we endeavor to obtain insurance agreements from financially solid, highly rated counterparties in established markets to cover significant risks and liabilities (including, for example, natural disasters and product liability). not every risk or liability can be insured, and, for risks that are insurable, the policy limits and terms of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. even if insurance coverage is available, we may not be able to obtain it at a price or on terms acceptable to us. disputes with insurance carriers over policy terms or the insolvency of one or more of our insurers may significantly affect the amount or timing of cash flows and, if litigation over coverage terms with the insurer becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. in some circumstances we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers through contractual provisions, laws, regulations or otherwise. however, these protections are not always available, are typically subject to certain terms or limitations and may not be sufficient to cover all losses or liabilities incurred. - 16 - northrop grumman corporation anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, spin-offs or strategic alliances may not be realized. as part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, merge with or acquire businesses, dispose of or spin-off businesses, form joint ventures or create strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying products, capabilities or technologies, the adequacy of the due diligence, the management of the operations and market conditions following these transactions. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges, liabilities, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-lived assets, guarantees, partner performance and indemnifications. divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through guarantees, indemnifications, or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. although we have established procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful. pension and medical expenses associated with our retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions, future investment performance of plan assets, future health care costs and legislative or other regulatory actions. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit plan assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. in addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. variances from these estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. additionally, due to government regulations, pension plan cost recoveries under our u.s. government contracts occur in different periods from when those pension costs are recognized for financial statement purposes or when pension funding is made. these timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. the cost accounting rules have been revised in order to partially harmonize the measurement and period of assignment of defined benefit pension plan costs allocable to u.s. government contracts and the minimum required contribution under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), as amended by the pension protection act (ppa) of 2006. these rules better align, but do not eliminate, mismatches between erisa funding requirements and cas pension costs for u.s. government cas covered contracts. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in applicable domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. deferred tax assets are required to be measured at the statutory tax rate currently in effect; therefore a change in the u.s. corporate tax rate would result in a remeasurement of our net deferred tax assets through the income tax provision. the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in our tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial reporting income and taxable income, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and significantly affect our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our nuclear-related operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks. our nuclear-related operations subject us to various risks, including potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health that may result from nuclear-related operations and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials. we are also subject to reputational harm and potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident, whether or not it is within our control. the u.s. government and prime contractors sometimes provide certain indemnity and other protection under certain of our government related contracts pursuant to, or in connection with, public law 85-804 and the price-anderson nuclear industries indemnity act for certain nuclear-related risks. if there was a nuclear incident and that indemnity or other protection (especially in connection with a - 17 - northrop grumman corporation commercial contract) was not available to cover our losses and liabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. if all or any portion of the spin-off of our former shipbuilding business or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off transaction are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax may incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in connection with the spin-off of our former shipbuilding business, we received a letter ruling from the irs and an opinion of counsel confirming that we and our shareholders would not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the merger, the internal reorganization or the distribution, except that our shareholders who receive cash in lieu of fractional shares would recognize gain or loss with respect to such cash. the ruling and the opinion relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us and hii regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause any of the factual statements or representations in the irs ruling or the opinion to be incomplete or untrue at the time of the spin-off transaction. nevertheless, if the irs determines that any of the factual statements or representations that the irs ruling or the opinion was based on were incomplete or untrue, or if certain facts or circumstances upon which the irs ruling or the opinion was based were materially different from those at the time of the spin-off, we and our shareholders may not be able to rely on the irs ruling or the opinion of counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. the spin-off of our former shipbuilding business may expose us to potential claims and liabilities. in connection with the spin-off transaction, we entered into a number of agreements with hii setting forth certain rights and obligations of the parties after the separation. for example, under the separation and distribution agreement, from and after the spin-off transaction, each of hii and northrop grumman is generally responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses that it owns and operates following the consummation of the spin-off. it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us and hii, and require that we assume responsibility for certain obligations allocated to hii (for example, tax and/or environmental liabilities), particularly if hii were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform such obligations. in addition, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities or obligations for which hii has agreed to be responsible and/or to indemnify us, directly or indirectly. the indemnity related rights we have under our agreements with hii may not be sufficient to protect us against such liabilities. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from hii or the u.s. government any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be required to record these losses ourselves until such time as the indemnity contribution is paid. in addition, certain indemnities that we may be required to provide hii are not subject to a cap, may be significant, and could negatively impact our business. these risks could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and/or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk equity risk we are exposed to market risk with respect to our portfolio of trading and available-for-sale marketable securities with a fair value of $310 million at december 31, 2013 . these securities are exposed to market volatilities, changes in price and interest rates. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to our holdings of cash and cash equivalents of $5.2 billion at december 31, 2013 , and we are also exposed to interest rate risk on variable-rate short-term credit facilities for which there were no borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2013 . at december 31, 2013 , we have $5.9 billion of long-term debt, primarily consisting of fixed rate debt, with a fair value of approximately $6.2 billion . from time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2013 , we have no interest rate swap agreements in effect. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risk with respect to our international operations. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to manage a portion of the exchange rate risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. at december 31, 2013 , foreign currency forward contracts with a notional amount of $149 million were outstanding. inflation risk we have generally been able to anticipate increases in costs when pricing our contracts. bids for longer-term firm fixed-price contracts typically include assumptions for labor and other cost escalations in amounts that historically have been sufficient to cover cost increases over the period of performance. a 10 percent change in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material impact to our consolidated financial position, annual results of operations and/or cash flows. - 42 -risk factors 7 the company originally was formed in hawthorne, california in 1939, as northrop aircraft incorporated and was reincorporated in delaware in 1985, as northrop corporation. northrop aircraft incorporated was a principal developer of flying wing technology, including the b-2 stealth bomber. the company developed into one of the largest defense contractors in the world through a series of acquisitions, as well as organic growth. in 1994, we acquired grumman corporation (grumman), after which time the company was renamed northrop grumman corporation. grumman was a premier military aircraft systems integrator and builder of the lunar module that first delivered men to the surface of the moon. in 1996, we acquired the defense and electronics businesses of westinghouse electric corporation, a world leader in the development and production of sophisticated radar and other electronic systems for the nation's defense, civil aviation, and other international and domestic applications. in 2001, we acquired litton industries, a global electronics and information technology company, and one of the nation's leading full service shipbuilders. in 2002, we acquired trw inc., a leading developer of military and civil space systems and satellite payloads, as well as a leading global integrator of complex, mission-enabling systems and services. in 2011, the company completed the spin-off to its shareholders of huntington ingalls industries, inc. (hii). hii operates our former shipbuilding business, which was acquired in 2001, through the acquisitions of newport news shipbuilding and litton industries. organization from time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses and realign contracts, programs or business areas among and within our operating segments. internal realignments are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance development and delivery of products and services. the operating results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes made through december 31, 2014 . we are currently aligned into four operating segments: aerospace systems, electronic systems, information systems and technical services. see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 for further information. aerospace systems aerospace systems, headquartered in redondo beach, california, is a leader in the design, development, integration and production of manned aircraft, unmanned systems, spacecraft, high-energy laser systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems. aerospace systems' customers, primarily u.s. government agencies, use these systems in mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (isr), communications, battle management, strike operations, electronic warfare, earth observation, satellite communications, space science and space exploration. the segment consists of four business areas: unmanned systems, military aircraft systems, space systems, and strategic programs &amp; technology. unmanned systems - designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates isr unmanned systems for tactical and strategic missions. key isr programs include the rq-4 global hawk reconnaissance system, a proven high-altitude long-endurance system providing near real-time high resolution imagery of large geographical areas; the triton aircraft system providing real-time isr over vast ocean and coastal regions; the trans-atlantic north atlantic treaty organization (nato) alliance ground surveillance (ags) system for multinational theater operations, peacekeeping missions, and disaster relief efforts; the fire scout aircraft system providing unprecedented situational awareness and precision targeting support; the navy unmanned combat air system demonstrating an unmanned - 1 - northrop grumman corporation combat air vehicle for carrier-based operations; and the common mission management system, providing high performance service based on ground control solutions enabling unmanned mission capabilities. military aircraft systems - designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne c4isr, electronic warfare mission systems, and long range strike and tactical aircraft systems. key airborne c4isr programs include the e-2d advanced hawkeye and joint surveillance target attack radar system (jstars). electronic warfare includes the ea-18g growler and ea-6b prowler airborne electronic attack weapon systems in addition to the design, development, and integration of laser weapon systems for air, sea, and ground platforms. this business area also designed, developed and manufactured the b-2 spirit bomber and now provides sustainment and upgrade services for the b-2, the nation's most advanced long range strike aircraft system. tactical aircraft includes the design, development, manufacture and integration of f/a-18 aft sections and f-35 center sections. space systems - designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems, sensors and communications payloads in support of space science and c4isr. key programs include the james webb space telescope, a large infrared telescope being built for the national aeronautics and space administration that will be deployed in space to study the origins of the universe; advanced extremely high frequency payloads providing survivable, protected communications to u.s. forces; and restricted programs. strategic programs &amp; technology - creates and matures advanced technologies and innovative concepts to provide affordable solutions addressing current and future customer needs. the strategic programs &amp; technology business area maintains a broad portfolio of contracts ranging from development of components to prototypes to initial operational systems across the air, land and space domains. electronic systems electronic systems, headquartered in linthicum, maryland, is a leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of solutions for sensing, understanding, anticipating and controlling the operating environment for our global military, civil and commercial customers. electronic systems provides a variety of defense electronics and systems, airborne fire control radars, situational awareness systems, early warning systems, electronic warfare systems, air defense radars and management systems, navigation systems, communications systems, marine power and propulsion systems, space systems and logistics services. the segment consists of three business areas: intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance &amp; targeting systems, land &amp; self protection systems, and navigation &amp; maritime systems. intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance &amp; targeting systems - delivers products and services for space satellite applications, airborne and ground-based surveillance, multi-sensor processing, analysis and dissemination for combat units and national agencies, both domestic and international. these systems provide battle space awareness, missile defense, command and control, combat avionics (fire control radars, multi-function apertures and pods), airborne electro-optical/infrared (eo/ir) targeting systems and postal automation systems. key programs include airborne fire control radars such as the scalable agile beam radar (sabr), which provides affordable active electronically scanned array (aesa) capabilities for domestic and international fighters; the f-35 fire control radar, a multi-function aesa radar for the u.s. armed forces and a large number of international partners; eo/ir systems such as the litening targeting pod and the distributed aperture system (das), a 360 degree spherical situational awareness system; airborne surveillance radars such as the multirole electronically scanned array (mesa) for airborne early warning &amp; control (aew&amp;c), which provides air-to-air and air-to-surface coverage; and space systems such as the space-based infrared system (sbirs), which provides data for missile surveillance, missile defense, technical intelligence and battlespace characterization. land &amp; self protection systems - delivers products, systems and services that support ground-based, helicopter and fixed wing platforms (manned and unmanned) with sensor and protection systems. a major product line of this business area consists of systems that perform threat detection and countermeasures that defeat infrared and radio frequency (rf) guided missile and tracking systems. this business area also provides integrated electronic warfare capability, communications and intelligence systems, unattended ground sensors, automatic test equipment, advanced threat simulators, ground-based air defense and multi-function radars, situational awareness systems, laser/electro-optical systems and digitized and open architecture cockpits and applications. key programs include the ground/air task oriented radar (g/ator), which is a ground-based multi-mission radar designed to detect and track a wide variety of threats; the tps-78 ground-based radar, which provides air defense and air surveillance for the global market; the large aircraft infrared countermeasures (laircm), which is an infrared countermeasure system designed to protect aircraft against man-portable (shoulder-launched) infrared-guided surface-to-air missiles; and the an/apr-39, which provides rapid identification and continuous radar threat warning for today's complex battlefields. - 2 - northrop grumman corporation navigation &amp; maritime systems - delivers products and services to domestic and international defense, civil and commercial customers supporting smart navigation, shipboard radar surveillance, ship control, machinery control and integrated combat management systems for naval surface ships; high-resolution undersea sensors for mine hunting, situational awareness and other applications; unmanned marine vehicles; shipboard missile and encapsulated payload launch systems, propulsion and power generation systems, nuclear reactor instrumentation and control and acoustic sensors for submarines and aircraft carriers; inertial navigation systems for all domains (air, land, sea, and space); and embedded global positioning systems. key programs include the an/spq-9b anti-ship missile defense radar, which provides the us navy's cruisers and destroyers with situational awareness and contact information from aircraft, cruise missiles, surface vessels and periscope detection; inertial navigation and positioning products for a range of platforms including ships, aircraft, spacecraft and weapons systems. in addition to the product and service lines discussed above, our electronic systems segment also includes advanced concepts &amp; technologies (ac&amp;t), which develops next-generation systems to position the segment in key developing markets. ac&amp;t focuses on understanding customer mission needs; conceiving affordable, innovative and open solutions; and demonstrating the readiness and effectiveness of electronic systems' products. ac&amp;t focuses on the following enterprise-wide and cross cutting technology development thrust areas: rf systems; eo/ir systems; multi-function systems; modular open systems architectural approaches and designs; precision navigation and timing capabilities; and secure and trusted solutions. information systems information systems, headquartered in mclean, virginia, is a leading provider of advanced solutions for the dod, national intelligence, federal civilian, state, international and commercial customers. products and services focus on the fields of command and control (c2), communications, cyber, air and missile defense, intelligence processing, civil security, health technology and government support systems. the segment consists of seven business areas: cyber, c2, communications, isr, integrated air and missile defense (iamd), civil and health. cyber - provides full spectrum solutions that address cyber security threats, cyber mission management and special cyber systems. cyber offerings span intelligence, defense, federal, state, international and commercial customers, providing dynamic cyber defense and specialized cyber systems and services in support of critical government missions. this business specializes in active defense, malware detection, analytics platforms and large scale cyber solutions for national security applications. c2 - provides net-enabled c2, battle management, command center integration, combat support systems, mission-enabling solutions and critical infrastructure protection systems. c2 systems support operations, managing assets and forces employed to accomplish national and military missions, and optimizing legacy platforms, sensors and weapons systems. these systems are installed in operational and command centers world-wide and across dod services, joint commands and the international security community. communications - provides the underlying networks, network management, gateway systems and radio frequency devices that support national military c4isr missions and help make c4isr more integrated and interoperable. communications capabilities include gateways and products for aircraft interoperability, multi-function avionics, software defined radios and protected communications. isr - delivers systems and services in signals intelligence (sigint), airborne reconnaissance, geospatial intelligence and data fusion, specializing in the collection, processing, and exploitation of data to achieve a deep understanding of the environment. offerings include intelligence integration, large scale information processing, multi-source intelligence, big data applications and geo-location techniques. iamd - provides integration and interoperability of net-enabled battle management, sensors, targeting and surveillance systems, air and missile defense c2, missile warning systems and critical situational awareness for weapons and fire control systems. this business provides solutions for both domestic and international customers, advanced iamd integration with land and air assets, and cost effective flexible architectures. civil - provides civilian it solutions, civil financial operations, public safety systems, law enforcement and state programs. this business is a provider in global homeland security and public safety, federal law enforcement information sharing and analysis, and it systems and services that enable civil missions and satisfy infrastructure and back office requirements. health - provides healthcare expertise combined with it capabilities to support effective healthcare services and efficient health and human services systems. capabilities include benefits management, population health, clinical data integration and health analytics. this business provides system engineering and integration, affordable national healthcare it, and solutions to meet health and human services challenges. - 3 - northrop grumman corporation key programs for the information systems segment include the joint national integration center research and development (jrdc) contract, which supports the technical infrastructure, modeling and simulation, test and evaluation, and management of the missile defense agency network at multiple sites; the battlefield airborne communications node (bacn), a high-altitude, airborne communications and information gateway system that provides situational awareness and c2 coordination between warfighters and commanders; the communications, navigation and identification (cni) integrated avionics system for the f-35 joint strike fighter based on software-defined technology with advanced capabilities for interoperability; and the integrated air and missile defense battle command system (ibcs), a c2 system that delivers a single, unambiguous view of the battlespace with enhanced aircraft and missile tracking improving the ability of combatant commanders and air defenders to make critical decisions within seconds. technical services technical services, headquartered in herndon, virginia, is a leader in innovative and affordable logistics, modernization and sustainment support and also provides an array of other advanced technology and engineering services, including space, missile defense, nuclear security, training and simulation. the segment consists of two business areas: integrated logistics and modernization; and mission solutions and readiness. integrated logistics and modernization - provides complete life cycle support and weapon system sustainment and modernization products and services, and provides direct support to warfighters while delivering aircraft and subsystem maintenance, repair and overhaul (mro). competencies include aircraft and electronics sustaining engineering, supply chain management services, manned and unmanned weapons systems deployed logistics support, field services and on-going maintenance and technical assistance, and delivering rapid response in support of global customers. key programs include kc-10 contractor logistics support (cls), which provides total weapons systems cls to the air force for the entire fleet of 59 kc-10 aircraft; intercontinental ballistic missile (icbm) systems, which provides systems engineering and integration for the land-based leg of the u.s. nuclear deterrent force; uk airborne warning and control system (awacs), which provides through life management of the uk royal air force fleet of e-3d awacs aircraft; kc-30a multi-role tanker transport (mrtt) which provides through life support for the royal australian air force (raaf) kc-30a air to air refueling aircraft; and aaq24 laircm, which provides repair, testing, component spare procurement, logistics, and data collection related to directional infrared counter measures systems used on multiple fixed and rotary wing aircraft. mission solutions and readiness - provides realistic and comprehensive training through live, virtual and constructive domains, innovative and diverse training applications ranging from battle command to professional military education, sustainment and modernization of tactical vehicles, high technology and engineering services in the areas of nuclear security, space and launch services, civil engineering and military range-sensor-instrumentation operations. key programs include ministry of the national guard training support (mng tsc), through our interest in a joint venture for which we consolidate the financial results, which provides equipment fielding, training and maintenance, simulator training and operations, tactical exercise development, logistics and operations support and english language training to the saudi arabian national guard; the mission command training program (mctp), the army's premier leadership and staff training exercise program at the tactical and operational level; and fort irwin logistics services support, which provides a full range of logistics support services and operates a large-scale maintenance and repair program of both tracked and tactical wheeled vehicles. selected financial data and segment operating results for a more complete understanding of our business, see selected financial data in part ii, item 6 . for a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see segment operating results in part ii, item 7 and note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 . customer concentration our primary customer is the u.s. government. sales to the u.s. government (which excludes foreign military sales - a method to sell u.s. defense equipment and services to foreign governments through the dod) accounted for approximately 85 percent of total sales in each of the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . international sales (which include foreign military sales) accounted for $3.0 billion , $2.5 billion and $2.1 billion , or 13 percent , 10 percent and 8 percent , of total sales for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. no single program accounted for more than ten percent of total sales during any period presented. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. - 4 - northrop grumman corporation competitive conditions we compete with many companies in the defense, intelligence and federal markets. bae systems, boeing, booz allen hamilton, finmeccanica, general dynamics, l-3 communications, lockheed martin, raytheon and thales are some of our primary competitors. key characteristics of our industry include long operating cycles and intense competition, which is evident through the number of bid protests (competitor protests of u.s. government procurement awards) and the number of competitors bidding on program opportunities. it is common in the defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, become a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. it is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa. seasonality no material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. backlog at december 31, 2014 , total backlog was $38.2 billion , compared with $37.0 billion at the end of 2013 . of the backlog at december 31, 2014 , approximately $19.3 billion is expected to be converted into sales in 2015 . for further information, see backlog in part ii, item 7. research and development see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 . intellectual property we routinely apply for and own a number of u.s. and foreign patents related to the products and services we provide. we also develop and protect intellectual property as trade secrets. in addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government typically holds licenses to patents developed in the performance of u.s. government contracts and may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by these patents for certain purposes. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. raw materials we have not experienced significant delays in the supply or availability of raw materials, nor have we experienced a significant price increase for raw materials. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. employee relations we believe that we maintain good relations with our 64,300 employees, of which approximately 2,800 are covered by 14 collective agreements. we negotiated renewals of two of our collective agreements in 2014 and expect to negotiate renewals of five of our collective agreements in 2015 . see risk factors in part i, item 1a. regulatory matters government contract security restrictions certain programs with the u.s. government that are prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed are generally referred to as restricted in this form 10-k. the consolidated financial statements and financial information in this form 10-k reflect the operating results of our entire company, including restricted programs, under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (gaap). contracts we generate the majority of our business from long-term contracts with the u.s. government for development, production and support activities. unless otherwise specified in a contract, allowable and allocable costs are billed to contracts with the u.s. government under the requirements of the federal acquisition regulation (far) and u.s. government cost accounting standards (cas) regulations. examples of costs incurred by us and not billed to the u.s. government in accordance with the requirements of the far and cas regulations include, but are not limited to, lobbying costs, certain legal costs, charitable donations, advertising costs, interest expense and unallowable employee compensation and benefit costs. - 5 - northrop grumman corporation our long-term contracts typically fall into one of two broad categories: cost-type contracts cost-type contracts include cost plus fixed fee, award fee and incentive fee contracts. cost-type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs incurred plus a fee. cost-type contracts generally require that the contractor use its best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation. fees on cost-type contracts can be fixed in terms of dollar value or percentage of costs. award and incentive fees are based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality and technical performance. award fees are determined and earned based on customer evaluation of the company's performance against negotiated criteria, and are intended to provide motivation for excellence in contract performance. incentive fees that are based on cost provide for an initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later, typically using a formula to measure performance against the associated criteria, based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs. award and incentive fees that can reasonably be estimated and are deemed reasonably assured are recorded over the performance period of the contract. fixed-price contracts a firm fixed-price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is a pre-determined, negotiated amount and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor, absent changes in scope by the customer. certain fixed-price incentive fee contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs plus a fee up to a ceiling amount, typically through a cost-sharing ratio that affects profitability. these types of fixed-price incentive fee contracts effectively become firm fixed-price contracts once the cost-share ceiling is reached. time-and-materials contracts are considered fixed-price contracts as they specify a fixed hourly rate for each labor hour charged. see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 and risk factors in part i, item 1a. the following table summarizes sales for the year ended december 31, 2014 , recognized by contract type and customer: ($ in millions) u.s. government other customers (1) total percent of total cost-type contracts $ 11,691 $ 506 $ 12,197 51 % fixed-price contracts 8,394 3,388 11,782 49 % total sales $ 20,085 $ 3,894 $ 23,979 100 % (1) other customer sales include foreign military sales. profit margins may vary materially depending on, among other things, negotiated contract fee arrangements, achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is determined. we monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to enhance consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with applicable government regulations and laws. in addition, costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the u.s. government are routinely audited by the defense contract audit agency. environmental our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. in 2010, we established goals for the reduction of water use and solid waste through implementation of best management practices; those goals were achieved as of december 31, 2014. in addition, after achieving the greenhouse gas (ghg) reduction goals established by the company in 2009, we announced in 2014 our commitment to reduce ghg emissions by 2020 from our 2010 ghg emissions level. we have incurred and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and to achieve our environmental sustainability commitments. see risk factors in part i, item 1a; note 1 and note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 . executive officers see part iii, item 10 , for information about our executive officers. available information our principal executive offices are located at 2980 fairview park drive, falls church, virginia 22042. our telephone number is (703) 280-2900 and our home page on the internet is www.northropgrumman.com. - 6 - northrop grumman corporation our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and proxy statement for the annual shareholders' meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the securities and exchange commission (sec). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page of our website. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about sec registrants, including northrop grumman corporation. you may also obtain these materials at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you can obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. references to our website and the sec's website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, such websites. such information should not be considered a part of this report, unless otherwise expressly incorporated by reference in this report. item 1a. risk factors our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. we urge you to consider carefully the risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report as the outcome of one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for a substantial portion of our business. changes in this customer's priorities and spending could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our primary customer is the u.s. government, from which we derived approximately 85 percent of our total sales during each of the past several years. the u.s. government is implementing significant reductions in government spending and other significant program changes. we cannot predict the impact on existing, follow-on, replacement or future programs from potential changes in priorities due to changes in defense spending levels, military strategy and planning and/or changes in social-political priorities. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for its convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government's convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. termination by the u.s. government of a contract due to our default could require us to pay for re-procurement costs in excess of the original contract price, net of the value of work accepted from the original contract, as well as other damages. termination of a contract due to our default could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for other contracts. the u.s. government also has the ability to stop work under a contract for a limited period of time for its convenience. it is possible that the u.s. government could invoke this ability across a limited or broad number of contracts. in the event of a stop work order, contractors are typically protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract to date and for costs associated with the temporary stoppage of work on the contract. however, such temporary stoppages and delays could introduce inefficiencies and result in financial and other damages for which we may not be able to negotiate full recovery from the u.s. government. they could also ultimately result in termination for convenience or reduced future orders. a significant shift in government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs and u.s. government funding more broadly may negatively impact our business and programs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. u.s. government programs are subject to annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for many programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though the program performance period may extend over several years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and additional funds are - 7 - northrop grumman corporation committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are obligated to the contract. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual budget process ultimately approved by congress or in separate supplemental appropriations or continuing resolutions, as applicable. plans adopted by the u.s. government, along with pressures on, and uncertainty surrounding, the federal budget, sequestration, the appropriations process, and the permissible federal debt limit, could adversely affect the funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. in the event government funding for our significant programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such programs may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government or the prime contractor. the statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt (the debt ceiling) was suspended until march 15, 2015. if the existing debt ceiling is not raised, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our u.s. government contracts even if the u.s. government is unable to make timely payments. an extended debt ceiling breach could negatively affect the u.s. government's timely payment of our billings, resulting in delayed cash collection, and have significant consequences for our company, our employees, our suppliers and the defense industry. the budget environment, including sequestration as currently mandated, and uncertainty surrounding the appropriations processes, remain significant long-term risks. considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will unfold and what challenges budget reductions will present for the defense industry. we believe continued budget pressures will have serious negative consequences for the security of our country, the defense industrial base, including northrop grumman, and the customers, employees, suppliers, investors, and communities that rely on companies in the defense industrial base. members of congress continue to discuss various options to address sequestration in future budget planning, but we cannot predict the outcome of these efforts. it is likely budget and program decisions made in this environment will have long-term implications for our company and the entire defense industry. long term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, budget cuts could adversely affect the viability of our subcontractors and suppliers, and our employee base. while we believe that our business is well-positioned in areas that the department of defense (dod) has indicated are areas of focus for future defense spending, the long-term impact of the budget control act, other defense spending cuts, and the ongoing fiscal debates remain uncertain. significant delays or reductions in appropriations, an extended debt ceiling breach, and/or future budget and program decisions may negatively impact our business and programs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we are subject to various investigations, claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us. the size, nature and complexity of our business make us susceptible to investigations, claims, and litigation, particularly those involving governments. we are and may become subject to investigations, claims and administrative, civil or criminal litigation globally and across a broad array of matters, including, but not limited to, government contracts, false claims, products liability, fraud, environmental, intellectual property, tax, export/import, labor, health and safety, employee benefits and improper payments. these matters could divert financial and management resources and result in fines, penalties, compensatory, treble or other damages or non-monetary relief. government regulations also provide that certain allegations against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of export privileges for the company or one or more of its components. suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company because of our reliance on government contracts and export authorizations. an investigation, claim or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could also negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. investigations, claims or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our international business exposes us to additional risks. sales to customers outside the u.s. are an increasingly important component of our strategy. our international business is subject to numerous political and economic factors, legal requirements, cross-cultural considerations and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ in some respects from those associated with our u.s. business and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. - 8 - northrop grumman corporation our international business is subject to both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export controls, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, data privacy and protection, investment, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and other anti-corruption laws, the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act, labor and employment, taxes, security restrictions and intellectual property. failure by us, our employees, or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges. changes in regulations, political leadership and environment, or security risks may dramatically affect our ability to conduct or continue to conduct business in international markets. our international business may also be impacted by changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets, as well as global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for significant penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. the services and products we provide internationally, including those provided by subcontractors, are sometimes in countries with unstable governments and/or developing legal systems, in areas of military conflict or at military installations. this increases the risk of political dynamics or an incident resulting in harm or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties, or in loss of property or damage to our products. it also exposes the company to additional financial, contractual and legal risks. accidents or incidents that occur in connection with our international operations could also result in negative publicity, which could adversely affect our reputation and make it more difficult for us to compete for future contracts or attract and retain employees or result in the loss of existing and future contracts. the occurrence and impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents, business partners or joint ventures in which we participate. we have implemented extensive policies, procedures, training and other compliance controls to prevent misconduct by employees, agents or others working on our behalf or with us that would violate the applicable laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing improper payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition and data privacy. however, we cannot ensure that we will prevent all such misconduct committed by our employees, agents, subcontractors or others working on our behalf or with us, and this risk of improper conduct may increase as we expand globally. in addition, in the ordinary course of our business we form and are members of joint ventures, some of which we do not control. we may be unable to prevent misconduct or other violations of applicable laws by these joint ventures. improper actions by our employees, agents, business partners or joint ventures could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension and debarment, which could negatively impact our reputation and ability to conduct business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we use estimates when accounting for contracts. contract cost growth or changes in estimated contract revenues and costs could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. incentives, awards or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. suppliers' assertions are also assessed and considered in estimating costs and profitability. our operating income can be adversely affected when we experience increased contract costs. reasons for contract cost growth may include: design issues; the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, including technical or quality issues; production challenges, including those resulting from the availability and timeliness of customer funding, unavailability or reduced productivity of labor or the effect of any delays in performance; the availability, performance, quality or financial strength of significant subcontractors; supplier issues, including the costs, timeliness and availability of materials and components; the effect of any changes in laws or regulations; actions deemed necessary for long-term customer satisfaction; and natural disasters or environmental matters. - 9 - northrop grumman corporation our risk varies with the type of contract. due to their nature, fixed-price contracts inherently tend to have more risk than cost type contracts. in 2014, approximately half of our sales were derived from fixed-price contracts. we typically enter into fixed-price contracts where costs can be more reasonably estimated based on experience. in addition, our contracts contain provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. if the terms specified in our contracts are not met, our profitability may be reduced and we may incur a loss. fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of our fixed-price contracts. this type of work is inherently more uncertain as to future events than production contracts, and, as a result, there is typically more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. as work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are typically reduced. while management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price development contracts, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. under cost type contracts, allowable costs incurred by the contractor are generally subject to reimbursement plus a fee. we often enter into cost type contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges. these cost type programs typically have award or incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods or towards the end of the contract. in these cases, the associated financial risks are primarily in recognizing profit, which ultimately may not be earned, or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could have a material adverse effect upon the profitability of one or more of the affected contracts and on our overall financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. see critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments in part ii, item 7. our business could be negatively impacted by cyber and other security threats or disruptions. as a defense contractor, we face various cyber and other security threats, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information and networks; insider threats; threats to the safety of our directors, officers and employees; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts or other acts of aggression. our customers, suppliers and subcontractors face similar threats. although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate the risk of these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient. these threats could lead to losses of sensitive information or capabilities, harm to personnel, infrastructure or products, and/or damage to our reputation as well as our or our suppliers' or subcontractors' ability to perform on our contracts. cyber threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, destructive malware, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, disruption or denial of service attacks, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information (ours or that of our customers or partners), and corruption of data, networks or systems. in addition, we could be impacted by cyber threats or other disruptions or vulnerabilities found in products we use or in our partners' or customers' systems that are used in connection with our business. these events, if not prevented or effectively mitigated, could damage our reputation, require remedial actions and lead to loss of business, regulatory actions, potential liability and other financial losses. we provide cyber and information technology systems, products and services to various customers (government and commercial) who also face cyber threats. our systems, products and services may themselves be subject to cyber threats and/or they may not be able to detect or deter threats, or effectively to mitigate resulting losses. these losses could adversely affect our customers and our company. the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could result in the loss of information or capabilities, harm to individuals or property, damage to our reputation, loss of business, regulatory actions and potential liability, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. pension and medical expenses associated with our retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions, future investment performance of plan assets and legislative or other regulatory actions. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit plan assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, mortality assumptions, rates of future cost growth - 10 - northrop grumman corporation and trends for future costs. in addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. recently, the society of actuaries released revised mortality tables, which update life expectancy assumptions. in consideration of these tables, we modified the mortality assumptions used in determining our fas (gaap financial accounting standards) pension and post-retirement benefit obligations as of december 31, 2014, which will have a related impact on our annual fas benefit expense in future years. we also updated the mortality assumptions used in determining our future cas benefit expense. we expect the adoption of new mortality assumptions for purposes of funding our plans will likely trail the adoption for both fas and cas purposes. the new mortality assumptions may result in additional funding requirements dependent upon the funded status of our plans. these expectations presume all other assumptions remain constant and there are no changes to applicable funding regulations. additionally, due to government regulations including the impact of cas harmonization, pension plan cost recoveries under our u.s. government contracts occur in different periods from when those pension costs are recognized for financial statement purposes or when pension funding is made. these timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. the cost accounting rules have been revised in order to partially harmonize the measurement and period of assignment of defined benefit pension plan costs allocable to u.s. government contracts and the minimum required contribution under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), as amended by the pension protection act (ppa) of 2006. these rules better align, but do not eliminate, mismatches between erisa funding requirements and cas pension costs for u.s. government cas covered contracts. changes in estimates and assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our earnings and profitability depend, in part, on subcontractor performance and financial viability as well as raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials and major components and subsystems for our products and to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies, provide intellectual property, and perform some of the services we provide to our customers. disruptions or performance problems caused by our subcontractors and suppliers could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. our ability to perform our obligations on time could be adversely affected if one or more of our subcontractors or suppliers were unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. changes in economic conditions, including changes in defense budgets or credit availability, could adversely affect the financial stability of our subcontractors and suppliers and/or their ability to perform. the inability of our suppliers to perform could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay or the need for us to provide other supplemental means to support our existing suppliers. in connection with our u.s. government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the customer. in some cases, there may be only one supplier for certain components. if a sole source supplier cannot meet our needs, we may be unable to find a suitable alternative. consistent with the industry's efforts, our procurement practices are intended to reduce the likelihood of our procurement of counterfeit or unauthorized parts or materials. in some circumstances, we must rely on certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding the parts or materials we procure. if certifications received from our subcontractors or suppliers are inaccurate, if we are unable to procure or experience significant delays in supply deliveries of needed materials, components, intellectual property or parts, or if what we receive is counterfeit or otherwise improper, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. competition within our markets and an increase in bid protests may affect our ability to win new contracts and result in reduced revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or specialized engineering, manufacturing, marketing capabilities or financial capacity or be willing to accept more risk or lower profitability in competing for contracts. we have seen, and anticipate we will continue to see, increased competition in some of our core markets, especially as a result of the reduction in budgets for many u.s. government agencies and our customer's continued focus on affordability and competition. we are facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from u.s., foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the - 11 - northrop grumman corporation dod, may turn to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for some products and services, or may utilize small business contractors or determine to source work internally rather than hiring a contractor. we also are seeing an increasing number of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. bid protests could result in contract modifications or the award decision being reversed and loss of the contract award. even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of an award, the resolution can extend the time until the contract activity can begin, and delay earnings. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, or prevail in a protest, we may experience declines in future revenues and market share, which could, over time, have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to various procurement and other laws and regulations applicable to our industry and we could be adversely affected by changes in such laws and regulations or any negative findings by the u.s. government as to our compliance with them. u.s. government contractors must comply with many significant procurement regulations and other specific legal requirements. these regulations and other requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs and risks and are regularly evolving. new laws, regulations or procurement requirements or changes to current ones (including, for example, regulations related to limits on recovery of employee compensation costs, counterfeit parts, specialty metals and conflict minerals), can significantly increase our costs and risks and reduce our profitability. we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa), defense contract management agency (dcma) and the dod inspector general. these agencies review performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of our systems and processes in meeting government requirements. costs ultimately found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions, forfeiture of profits or suspension or debarment. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate, with significant financial impact. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. our industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices as a result of an increased focus on affordability, efficiencies, recovery of costs and a reprioritization of available defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. as a result of certain of these initiatives, we have experienced and may continue to experience an increased number of audits and/or a lengthened period of time required to close open audits. more recently, the thresholds for certain allowable costs, including compensation costs, have been significantly reduced; others are being challenged, debated and, in certain cases, modified, all with potentially significant financial costs to the company. in connection with these cost reduction initiatives, the u.s. government is also pursuing alternatives to shift additional responsibility and performance risks to the contractor. we also are subject to and expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws, including but not limited to the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, cas, far, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act and the fcpa. if we are found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts; contract modifications or termination; the withholding of payments from our customer; the loss of export privileges; the assessment of penalties, fines, or compensatory, treble or other damages; or suspension or debarment. if we do not comply with the laws, regulations and processes to which we are subject or if business practices change significantly, including with respect to the thresholds for allowable costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural and/or environmental disasters that could adversely affect our profitability and our overall financial position. we have significant operations located in regions that may be exposed to earthquakes, damaging storms and other natural disasters. our business also may be subject to environmental disasters. our subcontractors and suppliers are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform under a - 12 - northrop grumman corporation contract. although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. natural and environmental disasters could also disrupt our and our subcontractors' and suppliers' workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, including computer and internet operation and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. if insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms are unavailable or insufficient to recover all costs or if we experience a significant disruption to our business due to a natural or environmental disaster, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our insurance coverage, customer indemnifications or other liability protections may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of or be unable to pay for material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial position. we endeavor to obtain insurance agreements from financially solid, highly rated counterparties in established markets to cover significant risks and liabilities (including, for example, natural disasters and product liability). not every risk or liability can be insured, and, for risks that are insurable, the policy limits and terms of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. even if insurance coverage is available, we may not be able to obtain it at a price or on terms acceptable to us. disputes with insurance carriers over policy terms or the insolvency of one or more of our insurers may significantly affect the amount or timing of cash flows and, if litigation over coverage terms with the insurer becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may adversely affect us. in some circumstances we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers through contractual provisions, laws, regulations or otherwise. however, these protections are not always available, are typically subject to certain terms or limitations and may not be sufficient to cover all losses or liabilities incurred. if available insurance coverage, customer indemnifications and/or other legal protections are not sufficient to cover our risks or losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide products and services related to nuclear operations, which subjects us to various environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks. we provide products and services used in nuclear-related activities (including nuclear-powered platforms) and support nuclear-related operations of third parties. this subjects us to various extraordinary risks, including potential liabilities relating to nuclear-related incidents and the harmful effects on the environment and human health that may result from such nuclear-related activities, operations or incidents, as well as the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials. we may be subject to reputational harm and potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident, whether or not the cause was within our control. under some circumstances, the u.s. government and prime contractors provide for certain indemnification and other protection under certain of our government related contracts, including pursuant to, or in connection with, public law 85-804, the price-anderson nuclear industries indemnity act and the terrorism risk insurance reauthorization act, for certain nuclear-related risks. if there was a nuclear incident or other nuclear-related damages, and that indemnification or other protection was not available to cover our losses and liabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill and other long-lived assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. goodwill accounts for approximately half of our total assets. market-based inputs to the calculations in the impairment test, such as weighted average cost of capital and terminal value (based on market comparisons) could change significantly from our current assumptions. additionally, the carrying values of our reporting units are significantly influenced by a number of factors, particularly the discount rate used to determine our net pension liability. we continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets. significant write-offs of goodwill or other long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. - 13 - northrop grumman corporation our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and new technologies and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to win new competitions and meet the needs of our customers. many of the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. the product, program and service needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our ability to develop technologically advanced and innovative products and services and market these products and services to our customers. our success also depends on our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. if we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant amount of future business to our competitors, which would negatively impact our ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain market share. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skills and/or security clearances. if qualified personnel become scarce or difficult to attract or retain in our industry for geographic, compensation-related or other reasons, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain necessary employees. failure to maintain a qualified workforce would result in significant difficulty in performing under our contracts. certain of our employees are covered by collective agreements. we generally have been able to renegotiate renewals to expiring agreements without significant disruption of operating activities. if we experience difficulties with renewals and renegotiations of existing collective agreements or if our employees pursue new collective representation, we could incur additional expenses and may be subject to work stoppages. any such expenses or delays could adversely affect our programs served by employees who are covered by such agreements or representation. if we are unable to develop new products and technologies or attract and retain a qualified workforce, we may be unable to maintain our competitive position and our future success could be adversely affected. many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and innovative products and services, which are applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery, or system failures, as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, intellectual property rights, labor, inability to achieve learning curve assumptions, manufacturing materials or components could prevent us from meeting requirements and create significant risk. in addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, loss of aviation platforms, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with design, quality and workmanship, country of origin of procured materials, delivery of subcontractor components or services and degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. among the factors that may affect revenue and profitability could be inaccurate cost estimates, design issues, human factors, unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period of time. under such terms, we could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and/or collected. if we are unable to meet our performance obligations due to issues regarding the design, development or manufacture of our products or services, or we experience launch, platform or satellite system failures, it could have an adverse impact on our current and future business. - 14 - northrop grumman corporation unforeseen environmental costs could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns and other actions. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires, and is expected to continue to require, significant operating and capital costs. we may be required to incur additional costs in excess of those anticipated as a result of, among other things, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts or sanctions or penalties or a determination that certain environmental costs are unallowable. in addition, if other identified responsible parties are insolvent or otherwise unable to pay their share of such costs, we may be required to incur additional costs in excess of those anticipated. environmental laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. these laws and regulations may limit our operations or require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the environmental protection agency (epa) on a list maintained by the general services administration of facilities that generally cannot be used in performing on u.s. government contracts until the violation is corrected. the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we may be unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property, and we license certain intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally holds licenses to certain intellectual property that we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use certain such intellectual property, typically for government purposes. more recently, we believe the u.s. government has asserted or sought to obtain more extensive rights in intellectual property. the u.s. government's efforts could result in a decrease in our ability to control the use of certain of our intellectual property rights in a government contracting environment. our intellectual property is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. we also rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as through other measures. these agreements and other measures may not provide adequate protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event of an infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management's attention away from other aspects of our business. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. in some instances, we have licensed the proprietary intellectual property of others, but we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property rights vary among countries and the protection provided to our intellectual property by these laws and foreign courts may not be the same as the remedies available under u.s. law. if we are unable adequately to control or protect our intellectual property rights against claims by the u.s. government or others, or otherwise procure necessary intellectual property, it could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. changes in applicable domestic or foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, including the possibility of retroactive effect, could affect our tax expense and profitability. for example, a change in the u.s. corporate tax rate would - 15 - northrop grumman corporation result in a remeasurement of our net deferred tax assets through the income tax provision because our deferred tax assets are measured at the current statutory tax rate. in addition, the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. changes in our tax provision or an increase in our tax liabilities, whether due to changes in applicable law and regulations, the interpretation or application thereof, changes in the tax rate or a final determination of tax audits or litigation, could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. the spin-off of our former shipbuilding business may expose us to potential claims, liabilities and reputational harm. in connection with the spin-off transaction, we entered into a number of agreements with hii setting forth certain rights and obligations of the parties after the separation. for example, under the separation and distribution agreement, from and after the spin-off transaction, each of hii and northrop grumman is generally responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses that it owns and operates following the consummation of the spin-off. it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us and hii, and require that we assume responsibility for certain obligations allocated to hii (for example, tax and/or environmental liabilities), particularly if hii were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform such obligations. in addition, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities or obligations for which hii has agreed to be responsible and/or to indemnify us, directly or indirectly. the indemnity related rights we have under our agreements with hii may not be sufficient to protect us against such liabilities. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from hii or the u.s. government any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be required to record these losses ourselves until such time as the indemnity contribution is paid. in addition, certain indemnities that we may be required to provide hii are not subject to a cap, may be significant, and could negatively impact our business. in connection with the spin-off transaction, we received a letter ruling from the irs and an opinion of counsel confirming that we and our shareholders would not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the merger, the internal reorganization or the distribution, except that our shareholders who received cash in lieu of fractional shares would recognize gain or loss with respect to such cash. nevertheless, if the merger, the internal reorganization or the distribution were ultimately determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders could be subject to additional income tax liabilities. the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could cause reputational harm and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39risk factors 7 the company originally was formed in hawthorne, california in 1939, as northrop aircraft incorporated and was reincorporated in delaware in 1985, as northrop corporation. northrop aircraft incorporated was a principal developer of flying wing technology, including the b-2 stealth bomber. the company developed into one of the largest defense contractors in the world through a series of acquisitions, as well as organic growth. in 1994, we acquired grumman corporation (grumman), after which time the company was renamed northrop grumman corporation. grumman was a premier military aircraft systems integrator and builder of the lunar module that first delivered humans to the surface of the moon. in 1996, we acquired the defense and electronics businesses of westinghouse electric corporation, a world leader in the development and production of sophisticated radar and other electronic systems for the nation's defense, civil aviation, and other u.s. and international applications. in 2001, we acquired litton industries, a global electronics and information technology company, and one of the nation's leading full service shipbuilders. in 2002, we acquired trw inc., a leading developer of military and civil space systems and satellite payloads, as well as a leading global integrator of complex, mission-enabling systems and services. in 2011, the company completed the spin-off to its shareholders of huntington ingalls industries, inc. (hii). hii operates our former shipbuilding business, which was acquired in 2001, through the acquisitions of newport news shipbuilding and litton industries. organization at december 31, 2015, the company was aligned into four sectors: aerospace systems, electronic systems, information systems, and technical services. subsequent realignment - effective january 1, 2016, the company streamlined our sectors from four to three to better align our business with the evolving needs of our customers and enhance innovation across the company. two new sectors were created by merging elements of our former electronic systems, information systems and technical services sectors. the new mission systems sector is composed of the majority of our former electronic systems sector and the businesses from our former information systems sector focused on the development of new capabilities for our military and intelligence customers. the services portfolio in the former information systems sector was combined with the former technical services sector to form the new technology services sector. among other operations that were realigned, the military and civil space hardware business in azusa, california, previously reporting to the electronic systems sector, moved to the aerospace systems sector, and the electronic attack business previously in the aerospace systems sector moved to the mission systems sector. this realignment is not reflected in the business descriptions below or in any of the financial information contained in this report. aerospace systems aerospace systems, headquartered in redondo beach, california, is a leader in the design, development, integration and production of manned aircraft, unmanned systems, spacecraft, high-energy laser systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems. aerospace systems' customers, primarily u.s. government agencies, use these systems in mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (isr), communications, battle management, strike operations, electronic warfare, earth observation, satellite communications, space science and space exploration. the segment consists of four business areas: unmanned systems, military aircraft systems, space systems, and strategic programs &amp; technology. unmanned systems - designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates isr unmanned systems for tactical and strategic missions. key isr programs include the rq-4 global hawk reconnaissance system, a proven high-altitude - 1 - northrop grumman corporation long-endurance system providing near real-time high resolution imagery of large geographical areas; the triton aircraft system providing real-time isr over vast ocean and coastal regions; the trans-atlantic north atlantic treaty organization (nato) alliance ground surveillance (ags) system for multinational theater operations, peacekeeping missions, and disaster relief efforts; the fire scout aircraft system providing unprecedented situational awareness and precision targeting support; the navy unmanned combat air system demonstrating an unmanned combat air vehicle for carrier-based operations; and the common mission management system, providing high performance service based on ground control solutions enabling unmanned mission capabilities. military aircraft systems - designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne c4isr, electronic warfare mission systems, and long range strike and tactical aircraft systems. key airborne c4isr programs include the e-2d advanced hawkeye and joint surveillance target attack radar system (jstars). electronic warfare includes the ea-18g growler and ea-6b prowler airborne electronic attack weapon systems in addition to the design, development, and integration of laser weapon systems for air, sea, and ground platforms. this business area also designed, developed and manufactured the b-2 spirit bomber and now provides sustainment and modernization services for the b-2, the nation's most advanced long range strike aircraft system. tactical aircraft includes the design, development, manufacture and integration of f/a-18 aft sections and f-35 center sections. space systems - designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems, sensors and communications payloads in support of space science and c4isr. key programs include the james webb space telescope, a large infrared telescope being built for the national aeronautics and space administration that will be deployed in space to study the origins of the universe; advanced extremely high frequency payloads providing survivable, protected communications to u.s. forces; and restricted programs. strategic programs &amp; technology - creates and matures advanced technologies and innovative concepts to provide affordable solutions addressing current and future customer needs. this business area maintains a broad portfolio of contracts ranging from basic research to the development of technologies, components, prototypes, and initial operational systems across the air, land and space domains. electronic systems electronic systems, headquartered in linthicum, maryland, is a leader in the design, development, manufacture and support of solutions for sensing, understanding, anticipating and controlling the operating environment for our global military, civil and commercial customers. electronic systems provides a variety of defense electronics and systems, airborne fire control radars, situational awareness systems, early warning systems, electronic warfare systems, air defense radars and management systems, navigation systems, communications systems, marine power and propulsion systems, space systems and logistics services. the segment consists of four business areas: airborne intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance &amp; targeting systems, space intelligence, surveillance, &amp; reconnaissance systems, land &amp; self protection systems, and navigation &amp; maritime systems. airborne intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance &amp; targeting systems - delivers products and services for airborne and ground-based surveillance, multi-sensor processing, analysis and dissemination for combat units and national agencies, both u.s. and international. these systems provide battle space awareness, command and control, combat avionics (fire control radars, multi-function apertures and pods), and airborne electro-optical/infrared (eo/ir) targeting systems. key programs include airborne fire control radars such as the scalable agile beam radar (sabr), which provides active electronically scanned array (aesa) capabilities for u.s. and international fighters; the f-35 fire control radar, a multi-function aesa radar for the u.s. armed forces and a large number of international partners; electro-optical infrared (eo/ir) systems such as the litening targeting pod and the distributed aperture system (das), a 360 degree spherical situational awareness system; and airborne surveillance radars such as the multirole and electronically scanned array (mesa) for airborne early warning &amp; control (aew&amp;c), which provides air-to-air and air-to-surface coverage. space intelligence, surveillance, &amp; reconnaissance systems - delivers products and services for radar and eo/ir space satellite applications for the dod and national intelligence agencies. these systems provide missile warning, missile defense, situational awareness, and ground software systems for intelligence community decision makers. key programs include space systems such as the space-based infrared system (sbirs), which provides data for missile surveillance, missile defense, technical intelligence and battlespace characterization; advanced technology microwave sounder (atms) for environmental sensing on jpss satellites; joint tactical army ground station (jtags), joint opir ground (jog) solutions; and a large number of restricted programs for the intelligence community. - 2 - northrop grumman corporation land &amp; self protection systems - delivers products, systems and services that support ground-based, helicopter and fixed wing platforms (manned and unmanned) with sensor and protection systems. a major product line of this business area consists of systems that perform threat detection and countermeasures that defeat infrared and radio frequency (rf) guided missile and tracking systems. this business area also provides integrated electronic warfare capability, communications and intelligence systems, unattended ground sensors, automatic test equipment, advanced threat simulators, ground-based air defense and multi-function radars, situational awareness systems, laser/electro-optical systems and digitized and open architecture cockpits and applications. key programs include the ground/air task oriented radar (g/ator), which is a ground-based multi-mission radar designed to detect and track a wide variety of threats; the tps-78 ground-based radar, which provides air defense and air surveillance for the global market; the large aircraft infrared countermeasures (laircm), which is an infrared countermeasure system designed to protect aircraft against man-portable (shoulder-launched) infrared-guided surface-to-air missiles; and the an/apr-39, which provides rapid identification and continuous radar threat warning for today's complex battlefields. navigation &amp; maritime systems - delivers products and services to u.s. and international defense, civil and commercial customers supporting smart navigation, shipboard radar surveillance, ship control, machinery control and integrated combat management systems for naval surface ships; high-resolution undersea sensors for mine hunting, situational awareness and other applications; unmanned marine vehicles; shipboard missile and encapsulated payload launch systems, propulsion and power generation systems, nuclear reactor instrumentation and control and acoustic sensors for submarines and aircraft carriers; inertial navigation systems for all domains (air, land, sea, and space); embedded global positioning systems; and postal automation systems. key programs include the an/spq-9b anti-ship missile defense radar, which provides the us navy's cruisers and destroyers with situational awareness and contact information from aircraft, cruise missiles, surface vessels and periscope detection; and inertial navigation and positioning products for a range of platforms including ships, aircraft, spacecraft and weapons systems. in addition to the product and service lines discussed above, our electronic systems segment also includes advanced concepts &amp; technologies (ac&amp;t), which develops next-generation systems to position the segment in key developing markets. ac&amp;t focuses on understanding customer mission needs; conceiving affordable, innovative and open solutions; and demonstrating the readiness and effectiveness of electronic systems' products. ac&amp;t focuses on the following enterprise-wide and cross cutting technology development thrust areas: rf systems; eo/ir systems; multi-function systems; modular open systems architectural approaches and designs; precision navigation and timing capabilities; and secure and trusted solutions. information systems information systems, headquartered in mclean, virginia, is a leading provider of advanced solutions for the dod, national intelligence, federal civilian, state, international and commercial customers. products and services focus on the fields of command and control (c2), communications, cyber, air and missile defense, intelligence processing, civil security, health technology and government support systems. the segment consists of seven business areas: cyber, c2, communications, isr, integrated air and missile defense (iamd), civil and health. cyber - provides full spectrum solutions that address cyber security threats, cyber mission management and special cyber systems. cyber offerings span intelligence, defense, federal, state, international and commercial customers, providing dynamic cyber defense and specialized cyber systems and services in support of critical government missions. this business specializes in active defense, malware detection, analytics platforms and large scale cyber solutions for national security applications. c2 - provides net-enabled c2, battle management, command center integration, combat support systems, mission-enabling solutions and critical infrastructure protection systems. c2 systems support operations, managing assets and forces employed to accomplish national and military missions, and optimizing legacy platforms, sensors and weapons systems. these systems are installed in operational and command centers world-wide and across dod services, joint commands and the international security community. communications - provides the underlying networks, network management, gateway systems and radio frequency devices that support national military c4isr missions and help make c4isr more integrated and interoperable. communications capabilities include gateways and products for aircraft interoperability, multi-function avionics, software defined radios and protected communications. isr - delivers systems and services in signals intelligence (sigint), airborne reconnaissance, geospatial intelligence and data fusion, specializing in the collection, processing, and exploitation of data to achieve a deep - 3 - northrop grumman corporation understanding of the environment. offerings include intelligence integration, large scale information processing, multi-source intelligence, big data applications and geo-location techniques. iamd - provides integration and interoperability of net-enabled battle management, sensors, targeting and surveillance systems, air and missile defense c2, missile warning systems and critical situational awareness for weapons and fire control systems. this business provides solutions for both u.s. and international customers, advanced iamd integration with land and air assets, and cost effective flexible architectures. civil - provides civilian information technology (it) solutions, civil financial operations, public safety systems, law enforcement and state programs. this business is a provider in global homeland security and public safety, federal law enforcement information sharing and analysis, and it systems and services that enable civil missions and satisfy infrastructure and back office requirements. health - provides healthcare expertise combined with it capabilities to support effective healthcare services and efficient health and human services systems. capabilities include benefits management, population health, clinical data integration and health analytics. this business provides system engineering and integration, affordable national healthcare it, and solutions to meet health and human services challenges. key programs for the information systems segment include the joint national integration center research and development (jrdc) contract, which supports the technical infrastructure, modeling and simulation, test and evaluation, and management of the missile defense agency network at multiple sites; the battlefield airborne communications node (bacn), a high-altitude, airborne communications and information gateway system that provides situational awareness and c2 coordination between warfighters and commanders; the communications, navigation and identification (cni) integrated avionics system for the f-35 joint strike fighter based on software-defined technology with advanced capabilities for interoperability; and the integrated air and missile defense battle command system (ibcs), a c2 system that delivers a single, unambiguous view of the battlespace with enhanced aircraft and missile tracking improving the ability of combatant commanders and air defenders to make critical decisions within seconds. technical services technical services, headquartered in herndon, virginia, is a leader in innovative logistics, modernization and sustainment and also provides an array of other advanced technology and engineering services, including space, missile defense, nuclear security, training and simulation. the segment consists of two business areas: integrated logistics and modernization and mission solutions and readiness. integrated logistics and modernization - provides complete life cycle support and weapon system sustainment and modernization products and services, and provides direct support to warfighters while delivering aircraft and subsystem maintenance, repair and overhaul (mro). competencies include aircraft and electronics sustaining engineering, supply chain management services, manned and unmanned weapons systems deployed logistics support, field services and on-going maintenance and technical assistance, and delivering rapid response in support of global customers. key programs include kc-10 contractor logistics support (cls), which provides total weapons systems cls to the air force for the entire fleet of 59 kc-10 aircraft; intercontinental ballistic missile (icbm) systems, which provides systems engineering and integration for the land-based leg of the u.s. nuclear deterrent force; uk airborne warning and control system (awacs), which provides through life management of the uk royal air force fleet of e-3d awacs aircraft; kc-30a multi-role tanker transport (mrtt), which provides through life support for the royal australian air force (raaf) kc-30a air to air refueling aircraft; mq5b hunter contractor logistics support (cls), which provides maintenance and continuous modernization of the army's fielded hunter unmanned aerial vehicles (uav); and aaq24 laircm, which provides repair, testing, component spare procurement, logistics, and data collection related to directional infrared counter measures systems used on multiple fixed and rotary wing aircraft. mission solutions and readiness - provides realistic and comprehensive training through live, virtual and constructive domains, innovative and diverse training applications ranging from battle command to professional military education, sustainment and modernization of tactical vehicles, high technology and engineering services in the areas of nuclear security, space and launch services, civil engineering and military range-sensor-instrumentation operations. key programs include ministry of the national guard training support (mng tsc), through our interest in a joint venture for which we consolidate the financial results, which provides equipment fielding, training and maintenance, simulator training and operations, tactical exercise development, logistics and operations support and english language training to the saudi arabian national guard; the mission command training program (mctp), the army's premier leadership and staff training exercise program at the tactical and operational level; and - 4 - northrop grumman corporation fort irwin logistics services support, which provides a full range of logistics support services and operates a large-scale maintenance and repair program of both tracked and tactical wheeled vehicles. selected financial data and segment operating results for a more complete understanding of our business, see selected financial data in part ii, item 6 . for a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see segment operating results in part ii, item 7 and note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 . customer concentration our largest customer is the u.s. government. sales to the u.s. government accounted for 83 percent, 84 percent and 86 percent of sales during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. for further information on sales by customer category, see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. no single program accounted for more than ten percent of total sales during any period presented. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. competitive conditions we compete with many companies in the defense, intelligence and federal markets. bae systems, boeing, booz allen hamilton, finmeccanica, general dynamics, harris, l-3 communications, leidos, lockheed martin, raytheon and thales are some of our primary competitors. key characteristics of our industry include long operating cycles and intense competition, which is evident through the number of bid protests (competitor protests of u.s. government procurement awards) and the number of competitors bidding on program opportunities. it is common in the defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, become a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. it is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa. seasonality no material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. backlog at december 31, 2015 , total backlog was $35.9 billion , compared with $38.2 billion at the end of 2014 . for further information, see backlog in part ii, item 7. research and development see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 . intellectual property we routinely apply for and own a number of u.s. and foreign patents related to the products and services we provide. we also develop and protect intellectual property as trade secrets. in addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government typically holds licenses to patents developed in the performance of u.s. government contracts and may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by these patents for certain purposes. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. raw materials we have not experienced significant delays in the supply or availability of raw materials, nor have we experienced a significant price increase for raw materials. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. employee relations we believe that we maintain good relations with our approximately 65,000 employees. approximately 2,600 are covered by 12 collective agreements in the u.s., of which we negotiated renewals of four in 2015 and expect to negotiate renewals of five in 2016 . see risk factors in part i, item 1a. regulatory matters government contract security restrictions certain programs with the u.s. government that are prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed are generally referred to as restricted in this annual report on form 10-k. the consolidated financial statements and - 5 - northrop grumman corporation financial information in this annual report on form 10-k reflect the operating results of our entire company, including restricted programs, under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (gaap). contracts we generate the majority of our business from long-term contracts with the u.s. government for development, production and support activities. unless otherwise specified in a contract, allowable and allocable costs are billed to contracts with the u.s. government under the requirements of the federal acquisition regulation (far) and u.s. government cost accounting standards (cas). examples of costs incurred by us and not billed to the u.s. government in accordance with the far and cas include, but are not limited to, lobbying costs, certain legal costs, charitable donations, advertising costs, interest expense and unallowable employee compensation and benefits costs. our long-term contracts typically fall into one of two broad categories: cost-type contracts cost-type contracts include cost plus fixed fee, award fee and/or incentive fee contracts. cost-type contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs incurred plus fee. cost-type contracts generally require that the contractor use its best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within some specified time and some stated dollar limitation. fees on cost-type contracts can be fixed in terms of dollar value or percentage of costs. award and incentive fees are generally based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality and/or technical performance. award fees are determined and earned based on customer evaluation of the company's performance against contractual criteria, and are intended to provide motivation for excellence in contract performance. incentive fees that are based on cost provide for an initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later, typically using a formula to measure performance against the associated criteria, based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs. award and incentive fees that can reasonably be estimated and are deemed reasonably assured are recorded over the performance period of the contract. fixed-price contracts a firm fixed-price contract is a contract in which the specified scope of work is agreed to for a price that is a pre-determined, negotiated amount and not generally subject to adjustment regardless of costs incurred by the contractor, absent changes in scope by the customer. certain fixed-price incentive fee contracts provide for reimbursement of the contractor's allowable costs plus a fee up to a cost ceiling amount, typically through a cost-sharing ratio that affects profitability. these types of fixed-price incentive fee contracts effectively become firm fixed-price contracts once the cost-share ceiling is reached. time-and-materials contracts are considered fixed-price contracts as they specify a fixed hourly rate for each labor hour charged. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 and risk factors in part i, item 1a. the following table summarizes sales for the year ended december 31, 2015 , recognized by contract type and customer: ($ in millions) u.s. government (1) international and other customers (2) total percentage of total sales cost-type contracts $ 11,558 $ 641 $ 12,199 52 % fixed-price contracts 7,900 3,427 11,327 48 % total sales $ 19,458 $ 4,068 $ 23,526 100 % (1) sales to the u.s. government include sales from contracts for which northrop grumman is the prime contractor, as well as those for which the company is a subcontractor and the ultimate customer is the u.s. government. each of the company's segments derives substantial revenue from the u.s. government. (2) sales to international and other customers include foreign military sales contracted through the u.s. government, direct commercial sales with governments outside the u.s., sales to state and local governments, and sales to commercial customers. profit margins may vary materially depending on, among other things, negotiated contract fee arrangements, achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is determined. we monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts on a regular basis to enhance consistent application under similar terms and conditions, as well as compliance with applicable government regulations and laws. in addition, costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the u.s. government are routinely audited by the defense contract audit agency. - 6 - northrop grumman corporation environmental our operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. in 2010, we established goals for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and implementation of best management practices for water use and solid waste; those goals were achieved as of december 31, 2014. in 2015, we announced our 2020 environmental sustainability goals: to reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent from 2010 levels; to reduce potable water use by 20 percent from 2014 levels; and achieve a 70 percent solid waste diversion rate (from landfills). we have recorded liabilities and have incurred and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and to achieve our environmental sustainability commitments. see risk factors in part i, item 1a and notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 . executive officers see part iii, item 10 , for information about our executive officers. available information our principal executive offices are located at 2980 fairview park drive, falls church, virginia 22042. our telephone number is (703) 280-2900 and our home page on the internet is www.northropgrumman.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and proxy statement for the annual shareholders' meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the securities and exchange commission (sec). you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page of our website. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about sec registrants, including northrop grumman corporation. you may also obtain these materials at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you can obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. references to our website and the sec's website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, such websites. such information should not be considered a part of this report, unless otherwise expressly incorporated by reference in this report. item 1a. risk factors our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. we urge you to consider carefully the risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report as the outcome of one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for a substantial portion of our business. changes in this customer's priorities and spending could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our primary customer is the u.s. government, from which we derived 83 percent, 84 percent and 86 percent of our sales during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. the u.s. government has been implementing significant reductions in government spending and other significant program changes. we cannot predict the impact on existing, follow-on, replacement or future programs from potential changes in priorities due to changes in defense spending levels, military strategy and planning and/or changes in social-political priorities. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for its convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government's convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. termination by the u.s. government of a contract due to our default could require us to pay for re-procurement costs in excess of the original contract price, net of the value of work accepted from the original contract, as well as other damages. termination of a contract due to our default could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our ability to compete for other contracts. - 7 - northrop grumman corporation the u.s. government also has the ability to stop work under a contract for a limited period of time for its convenience. it is possible that the u.s. government could invoke this ability across a limited or broad number of contracts. in the event of a stop work order, contractors are typically protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract to date and for costs associated with the temporary stoppage of work on the contract. however, such temporary stoppages and delays could introduce inefficiencies and result in financial and other damages for which we may not be able to negotiate full recovery from the u.s. government. they could also ultimately result in termination for convenience or reduced future orders. a significant shift in government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs and u.s. government funding more broadly may negatively impact our business and programs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. u.s. government programs are subject to annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for many programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though the program performance period may extend over several years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are obligated to the contract. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual budget process ultimately approved by congress or in separate supplemental appropriations or continuing resolutions, as applicable. laws and plans adopted by the u.s. government relating to, along with pressures on and uncertainty surrounding the federal budget, sequestration, the appropriations process, use of continuing resolutions (with restrictions, e.g., on new starts) and the permissible federal debt limit, could adversely affect the funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. in the event government funding for our significant programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such programs may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government or the prime contractor. on november 2, 2015, the president signed the bipartisan budget act of 2015 (the budget act). the budget act raises the statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt (the debt ceiling) until march 2017 and raises the sequester caps imposed by the budget control act of 2011 (the budget control act) by $80 billion, split equally between defense and domestic spending, over the next two years ($50 billion in fy 2016 and $30 billion in fy 2017). however, unforeseen circumstances could cause an extended debt ceiling breach, which could negatively affect the u.s. government's timely payment of our billings, resulting in delayed cash collection, and have significant consequences for our company, our employees, our suppliers and the defense industry. on december 18, 2015, congress passed and the president signed the consolidated appropriations act of 2016, which provides funding for the u.s. government for fy 2016, providing $1.1 trillion in discretionary funding for federal agencies through september 2016. the budget environment, including sequestration as currently mandated, and uncertainty surrounding the appropriations processes, remain significant long-term risks. considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will unfold, what challenges budget reductions (required by the budget control act and otherwise) will present for the defense industry and whether an annual appropriations bill will be enacted for fy 2017. if an annual appropriations bill is not enacted for fy 2017 or beyond, the u.s. government may operate under a continuing resolution, restricting new contract or program starts and we may face a government shutdown of unknown duration. adverse consequences from operating under a continuing resolution may be greater if the company has a higher percentage of development programs. we believe continued budget pressures will have serious negative consequences for the security of our country, the defense industrial base, including northrop grumman, and the customers, employees, suppliers, investors, and communities that rely on companies in the defense industrial base. it is likely budget and program decisions made in this environment will have long-term implications for our company and the entire defense industry. long term funding for certain programs in which we participate may be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, budget cuts globally could adversely affect the viability of our subcontractors and suppliers, and our employee base. while we believe that our business is well-positioned in areas that the department of defense (dod) and other customers have indicated are areas of focus for future defense spending, the long-term impact of the budget control act, other defense spending cuts, and the ongoing fiscal debates remain uncertain. - 8 - northrop grumman corporation significant delays or reductions in appropriations; long term funding under a continuing resolution; an extended debt ceiling breach or government shutdown; and/or future budget and program decisions, among other items, may negatively impact our business and programs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we are subject to various investigations, claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us. the size, nature and complexity of our business make us susceptible to investigations, claims, and litigation, particularly those involving governments. we are and may become subject to investigations, claims and administrative, civil or criminal litigation globally and across a broad array of matters, including, but not limited to, government contracts, false claims, products liability, fraud, environmental, intellectual property, tax, export/import, anti-corruption, labor, health and safety, employee benefits and plans, including plan administration, and improper payments. these matters could divert financial and management resources; result in fines, penalties, compensatory, treble or other damages or non-monetary relief; and otherwise disrupt our business. government regulations also provide that certain allegations against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of export privileges for the company or one or more of its components. suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company because of our reliance on government contracts and export authorizations. an investigation, claim or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could also negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. investigations, claims or litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our international business exposes us to additional risks. sales to customers outside the u.s. are an increasingly important component of our strategy. our international business (including joint ventures) is subject to numerous political and economic factors, legal requirements, cross-cultural considerations and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ in some respects from those associated with our u.s. business and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is subject to both u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export controls, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, data privacy and protection, investment, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and other anti-corruption laws, the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act, labor and employment, works councils and other labor groups, taxes, security restrictions and intellectual property. failure by us, our employees, or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges. changes in regulations, political leadership and environment, or security risks may dramatically affect our ability to conduct or continue to conduct business in international markets. our international business may also be impacted by changes in foreign national policies and priorities, government budgets, and economic factors more generally, any of which could impact funding for programs or delay purchasing or payment decisions by customers. global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could further impact our international business. our international contracts may also include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for significant penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. our ability to sell products outside the u.s. could be adversely affected if we are unable to design our products for export on a cost effective basis or to obtain all necessary export licenses and authorizations on a timely basis. our ability to conduct business outside of the u.s. also depends on our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel with the skills and/or security clearances in the markets in which we do business. the products and services we provide internationally, including those provided by subcontractors and joint ventures in which we have an interest, are sometimes in countries with unstable governments and/or developing legal systems, in areas of military conflict or at military installations. this increases the risk of political dynamics or an incident resulting in harm or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties, or in loss of property or damage to our products. it also exposes the company to additional financial, contractual and legal risks. accidents or incidents that occur in connection with our international operations could also result in negative publicity, which could adversely affect our reputation and make it more difficult for us to compete for future contracts or attract and retain employees or result in the loss of existing and future contracts. - 9 - northrop grumman corporation the occurrence and impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents, business partners or joint ventures in which we participate. we have implemented extensive policies, procedures, training and other compliance controls to prevent misconduct by employees, agents or others working on our behalf or with us that would violate the applicable laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing improper payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition and data privacy. however, we cannot ensure that we will prevent all such misconduct committed by our employees, agents, subcontractors or others working on our behalf or with us, and this risk of improper conduct may increase as we expand globally. in the ordinary course of our business we form and are members of joint ventures. we may be unable to prevent misconduct or other violations of applicable laws by these joint ventures. improper actions by our employees, agents, subcontractors, business partners or joint ventures could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension and debarment, which could negatively impact our reputation and ability to conduct business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we use estimates when accounting for contracts. contract cost growth or changes in estimated contract revenues and costs could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. incentives, awards or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. suppliers' assertions are also assessed and considered in estimating costs and profitability. our operating income can be adversely affected when we experience increased estimated contract costs. reasons for estimated contract cost growth may include: design issues; changes in estimates of the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, including technical or quality issues or requests to perform additional work at the direction of the customer; production challenges, including those resulting from the availability and timeliness of customer funding, unavailability or reduced productivity of labor or the effect of any delays in performance; the availability, performance, quality or financial strength of significant subcontractors; supplier issues, including the costs, timeliness and availability of materials and components; the effect of any changes in laws or regulations; actions deemed necessary for long-term customer satisfaction; and natural disasters or environmental matters. we may file requests for equitable adjustment or claims to seek recovery in whole or in part for our increased costs. our risk varies with the type of contract. due to their nature, fixed-price contracts inherently tend to have more risk than cost type contracts. in 2015, approximately half of our sales were derived from fixed-price contracts. we typically enter into fixed-price contracts where costs can be more reasonably estimated based on actual experience, such as for mature production programs. in addition, our contracts contain provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. if the terms specified in our contracts are not met, our profitability may be reduced and we may incur a loss. our fixed-priced contracts may include fixed-price development work. this type of work is inherently more uncertain as to future events than production contracts, and, as a result, there is typically more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. as work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are typically reduced. while management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed price development contracts, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. under cost type contracts, allowable costs incurred by the contractor are generally subject to reimbursement plus a fee. we often enter into cost type contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges. these cost type programs typically have award or incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods or towards the end of the contract. in these cases, the associated financial risks are primarily in recognizing profit, which ultimately may not be earned, or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates, and the failure to prevail on claims for equitable adjustments could have a material adverse effect upon the profitability of one or more of the affected - 10 - northrop grumman corporation contracts and on our overall financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. see critical accounting policies, estimates and judgments in part ii, item 7. our business could be negatively impacted by cyber and other security threats or disruptions. as a defense contractor, we face various cyber and other security threats, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information and networks; insider threats; threats to the safety of our directors, officers and employees; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts or other acts of aggression. our customers and partners (including subcontractors and joint ventures) face similar threats. although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate the risk of these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient. these threats could lead to losses of sensitive information or capabilities, harm to personnel, infrastructure or products, and/or damage to our reputation as well as our partners' ability to perform on our contracts. cyber threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, destructive malware, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, disruption or denial of service attacks, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential, personal or otherwise protected information (ours or that of our employees, customers or partners), and corruption of data, networks or systems. in addition, we could be impacted by cyber threats or other disruptions or vulnerabilities found in products we use or in our partners' or customers' systems that are used in connection with our business. these events, if not prevented or effectively mitigated, could damage our reputation, require remedial actions and lead to loss of business, regulatory actions, potential liability and other financial losses. we provide systems, products and services to various customers (government and commercial) who also face cyber threats. our systems, products and services may themselves be subject to cyber threats and/or they may not be able to detect or deter threats, or effectively to mitigate resulting losses. these losses could adversely affect our customers and our company. the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could result in the loss of information or capabilities, harm to individuals or property, damage to our reputation, loss of business, regulatory actions and potential liability, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. pension and medical liabilities and related expenses in our financial statements that have been recorded in connection with our retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon future investment performance of plan assets, changes in actuarial assumptions, and legislative or other regulatory actions. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. pension and medical liabilities and related expenses in our financial statements that have been recorded in connection with these plans are primarily dependent upon future investment performance of plan assets and various assumptions, including discount rates applied to future payment obligations, mortality assumptions, estimated long term rates of return on plan assets, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. in addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. in accordance with government regulations, pension plan cost recoveries under our u.s. government contracts occur in different periods from when those pension costs are recognized for financial statement purposes or when pension funding is made. these timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. the cost accounting rules have been revised in order to partially harmonize the measurement and period of assignment of defined benefit pension plan costs allocable to u.s. government contracts and the minimum required contribution under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), as amended by the pension protection act (ppa) of 2006. these rules better align, but do not eliminate, mismatches between erisa funding requirements and cas pension costs for u.s. government cas covered contracts. future investment performance of plan assets and changes in assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our earnings and profitability depend, in part, on subcontractor performance and financial viability as well as raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials and major components and subsystems for our products and to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies, provide intellectual property, and perform some of the services we - 11 - northrop grumman corporation provide to our customers, and to do so in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. disruptions or performance problems caused by our subcontractors and suppliers, or a misalignment between our contractual obligations to our customers and our agreement with our subcontractors and suppliers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. our ability to perform our obligations on time could be adversely affected if one or more of our subcontractors or suppliers were unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely, compliant and cost-effective manner or otherwise to meet the requirements of the contract. changes in economic conditions, including changes in defense budgets or credit availability, could adversely affect the financial stability of our subcontractors and suppliers and/or their ability to perform. the inability of our suppliers to perform could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay or the need for us to provide other supplemental means to support our existing suppliers. in connection with our u.s. government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the customer. in some cases, there may be only one supplier for certain components. if a sole source supplier cannot meet our needs or is otherwise unavailable, we may be unable to find a suitable alternative. our procurement practices are intended to reduce the likelihood of our procurement of counterfeit, unauthorized or otherwise non-compliant parts or materials. we rely on our subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding the parts or materials we procure from them; in some circumstances, we rely on certifications provided by our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance. if we are unable to procure or experience significant delays in supplier deliveries of needed materials, components, intellectual property or parts; if our subcontractors or suppliers do not comply with all applicable laws and regulations; if the certifications we receive from them are inaccurate; or if what we receive is counterfeit or otherwise improper, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. competition within our markets and an increase in bid protests may affect our ability to win new contracts and result in reduced revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or specialized engineering, manufacturing, or marketing capabilities in some areas or financial capacity, or be willing to accept more risk or lower profitability in competing for contracts. we have seen, and anticipate we will continue to see, increased competition in some of our core markets, especially as a result of budget reductions for many customers, a continued focus on affordability and competition, and our own success in winning business. we are facing increasing competition in our u.s. and international markets from u.s., foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, may turn to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for some products and services, or may utilize small business contractors or determine to source work internally rather than hiring a contractor. we also are seeing an increasing number of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. bid protests could result in contract modifications or the award decision being reversed and loss of the contract award. even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of an award, the resolution can extend the time until the contract activity can begin, and delay earnings. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, or prevail in protests, we may experience declines in future revenues and market share, which could, over time, have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. as a u.s. government contractor, we and our partners are subject to various procurement and other laws and regulations applicable to our industry and we could be adversely affected by changes in such laws and regulations or any negative findings by the u.s. government as to our compliance with them. we also may be adversely affected by changes in our customers' business practices globally. u.s. government contractors (including their subcontractors and others with whom they do business) must comply with many significant procurement regulations and other specific legal requirements. these regulations and other requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs and risks and are regularly evolving. new laws, regulations or procurement requirements or changes to current ones (including, for example, regulations related to limits on recovery of employee compensation costs, counterfeit parts, specialty metals and conflict minerals) can significantly increase our costs and risks and reduce our profitability. - 12 - northrop grumman corporation we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa), defense contract management agency (dcma) and the dod inspector general. these agencies review performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of our systems and processes in meeting government requirements. costs ultimately found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions, forfeiture of profits or suspension or debarment. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate, with significant financial impact. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. our industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices globally as a result of an increased focus on affordability, efficiencies, recovery of costs and a reprioritization of available defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. as a result of certain of these initiatives, we have experienced and may continue to experience an increased number of audits and/or a lengthened period of time required to close open audits. more recently, the thresholds for certain allowable costs in the u.s., including compensation costs, have been significantly reduced; the allowability of other types of costs are being challenged, debated and, in certain cases, modified, all with potentially significant financial costs to the company. in connection with these cost reduction initiatives, the u.s. government is also pursuing alternatives to shift additional responsibility and performance risks to the contractor. we (again, including our subcontractors and others with whom we do business) also are subject to and expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws, including but not limited to the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, cas, far, the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act and the fcpa. if we are found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts; contract modifications or termination; the withholding of payments from our customer; the loss of export privileges; the assessment of penalties, fines, or compensatory, treble or other damages; or suspension or debarment. if we do not comply with the laws, regulations and processes to which we are subject or if customer business practices change significantly, including with respect to the thresholds for allowable costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural and/or environmental disasters that could adversely affect our profitability and our overall financial position. we have significant operations located in regions that may be exposed to earthquakes, damaging storms and other natural disasters. our business also may be subject to environmental disasters. our subcontractors and suppliers are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform under a contract. although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. natural and environmental disasters could also disrupt our and our subcontractors' and suppliers' workforce and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. if insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms are unavailable or insufficient to recover all costs or if we experience a significant disruption to our business due to a natural or environmental disaster, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our insurance coverage, customer indemnifications or other liability protections may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of or be unable to pay for material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial position. we endeavor to obtain insurance agreements from financially solid, highly rated counterparties in established markets to cover significant risks and liabilities (including, for example, natural disasters and product liability). not every risk or liability can be insured, and, for risks that are insurable, the policy limits and terms of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. even if insurance coverage is available, we may not be able to obtain it at a price or on terms acceptable to us. disputes with insurance carriers over policy terms or the insolvency of one or more of our insurers may significantly affect the amount or timing of cash flows and, if litigation over coverage terms with the insurer becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may adversely affect us. - 13 - northrop grumman corporation in some circumstances we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers through contractual provisions, laws, regulations or otherwise. however, these protections are not always available, are typically subject to certain terms or limitations and may not be sufficient to cover all losses or liabilities incurred. if available insurance coverage, customer indemnifications and/or other legal protections are not sufficient to cover our risks or losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we provide products and services related to hazardous and high risk operations, which subjects us to various environmental, regulatory, financial, reputational and other risks. we provide products and services related to hazardous and high risk operations. among other such operations, our products and services are used in nuclear-related activities (including nuclear-powered platforms) and in support of nuclear-related operations of third parties. this subjects us to various extraordinary risks, including potential liabilities relating to nuclear-related incidents and the harmful effects on the environment and human health that may result from such nuclear-related activities, operations or incidents, as well as the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials. we may be subject to reputational harm and potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident, whether or not the cause was within our control. under some circumstances, the u.s. government and prime contractors provide for certain indemnification and other protection under certain of our government related contracts, including pursuant to, or in connection with, public law 85-804, the price-anderson nuclear industries indemnity act and the terrorism risk insurance reauthorization act, for certain nuclear-related risks. in addition, our customers may otherwise use our products and services in connection with hazardous activities, or in ways that can be unusually hazardous or risky, creating potential liabilities to our customers and/or our company as the provider of such products and services. in the event of an incident, if our customers fail to use our products properly or if our products or services do not operate as intended, we could be subject to reputational harm and potential liabilities. if there was a nuclear incident or other nuclear-related damages, or incident or other damages related to or caused by the hazardous use of our products and services, and if indemnification or other protection was not available to cover our losses and liabilities, it could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill and other long-lived assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. goodwill accounts for approximately half of our total assets. market-based inputs to the calculations in our goodwill impairment test, such as weighted average cost of capital and terminal value (based on market comparisons) could change significantly from our current assumptions. additionally, the carrying values of our reporting units are significantly influenced by a number of factors, particularly the discount rate used to determine our net pension liability. we continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets. significant write-offs of goodwill or other long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and new technologies and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to win new competitions and meet the needs of our customers. many of the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. the product, program and service needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our ability to develop technologically advanced, innovative and cost-effective products and services and market these products and services to our customers in the u.s. and internationally. our success depends on our continued access to assured suppliers of important technologies and components. our success also depends on our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. if we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant amount of future business to our competitors, which would negatively impact our ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain market share. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skills and/or security clearances, globally. if qualified personnel become scarce or difficult to attract or retain or if we experience a high level of attrition for geographic, compensation-related or other reasons, or if such personnel - 14 - northrop grumman corporation are unable to obtain security clearances on a timely basis, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain necessary employees. failure to maintain a qualified workforce would result in significant difficulty in performing under our contracts. certain of our employees are covered by collective agreements. we generally have been able to renegotiate renewals to expiring agreements without significant disruption of operating activities. if we experience difficulties with renewals and renegotiations of existing collective agreements or if our employees pursue new collective representation, we could incur additional expenses and may be subject to work stoppages. any such expenses or delays could adversely affect our programs served by employees who are covered by such agreements or representation. if we are unable to develop new products and technologies or attract and retain a qualified workforce, we may be unable to maintain our competitive position and our future success could be adversely affected. many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and innovative products and services, which are applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery, or system failures, as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, intellectual property rights, labor, inability to achieve learning curve assumptions, inability to manage effectively a broad array of programs, manufacturing materials or components could prevent us from meeting requirements and create significant risk. in addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, loss of aviation platforms, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with design, quality and workmanship, country of origin of procured materials, delivery of subcontractor components or services and degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. among the factors that may affect revenue and profitability could be inaccurate cost estimates, design issues, human factors, unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period of time. under such terms, we could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and/or collected. if we are unable to meet our performance obligations due to issues regarding the design, development or manufacture of our products or services, or we experience launch, platform or satellite system failures, it could have an adverse impact on our current and future business. unforeseen environmental costs could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns and other actions. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires, and is expected to continue to require, significant operating and capital costs. we may be required to incur additional costs in excess of those anticipated as a result of, among other things, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts or sanctions or penalties or a determination that certain environmental costs are unallowable. in addition, if other identified responsible parties are insolvent or otherwise unable to pay their share of such costs, we may be required to incur additional costs in excess of those anticipated. environmental laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. these laws and regulations may limit our operations or require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. in addition, if we were - 15 - northrop grumman corporation found to be in violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the environmental protection agency on a list maintained by the general services administration of facilities that generally cannot be used in performing on u.s. government contracts until the violation is corrected. the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. we may be unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property, and we license certain intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the u.s. government generally holds licenses to certain intellectual property that we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use certain such intellectual property, typically for government purposes. more recently, we believe the u.s. government has asserted or sought to obtain more extensive rights in intellectual property. the u.s. government's efforts could result in a decrease in our ability to control the use of certain of our intellectual property rights in a government contracting environment. our intellectual property is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. we also rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as through other measures. these agreements and other measures may not provide adequate protection for our unpatented proprietary information. in the event of an infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management's attention away from other aspects of our business. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. in some instances, we have licensed the proprietary intellectual property of others, but we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property rights vary among countries and the protection provided to our intellectual property by these laws and foreign courts may not be the same as the remedies available under u.s. law. if we are unable adequately to control or protect our intellectual property rights against claims by our customers or others, or otherwise procure necessary intellectual property, it could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. changes in applicable u.s. or foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, including the possibility of retroactive effect, could affect our tax expense and profitability. for example, a change in the u.s. corporate tax rate would result in a remeasurement of our net deferred tax assets through the income tax provision because our deferred tax assets are measured at the current statutory tax rate. in addition, the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. changes in our tax provision or an increase in our tax liabilities, whether due to changes in applicable law and regulations, the interpretation or application thereof, changes in the tax rate or a final determination of tax audits or litigation, could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. the spin-off of our former shipbuilding business may expose us to claims, liabilities and reputational harm. in connection with the spin-off transaction, we entered into a number of agreements with hii setting forth certain rights and obligations of the parties after the separation. for example, under the separation and distribution agreement, from and after the spin-off transaction, each of hii and northrop grumman is generally responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses that it owns and operates following the consummation of the spin-off. it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us and hii, and require that we assume responsibility for certain obligations allocated to hii (for example, tax and/or environmental liabilities), particularly if hii were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform such obligations. in addition, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities or obligations for which hii has agreed to be responsible and/or to indemnify us, directly or indirectly. the indemnity related rights we have under our agreements with hii may not be sufficient to protect us against such liabilities. even if we ultimately succeed in - 16 - northrop grumman corporation recovering from hii or the u.s. government any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be required to record these losses ourselves until such time as the indemnity contribution is paid. in addition, certain indemnities that we may be required to provide hii are not subject to a cap, may be significant, and could negatively impact our business. in connection with the spin-off transaction, we received a letter ruling from the irs and an opinion of counsel confirming that we and our shareholders would not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the merger, the internal reorganization or the distribution, except that our shareholders who received cash in lieu of fractional shares would recognize gain or loss with respect to such cash. nevertheless, if the merger, the internal reorganization or the distribution were ultimately determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders could be subject to additional income tax liabilities. the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could cause reputational harm and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38risk factors 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38risk factors 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40risk factors 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42risk factors 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rates the company is exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed-rate long-term debt obligations, variable-rate short-term debt outstanding under the credit agreement, short-term investments, and long-term notes receivable. at december 31, 2004, substantially all borrowings were fixed-rate long-term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. the company sensitivity to a 1 percent change in interest rates is tied to its $2.5 billion credit agreement, which had no balance outstanding at december 31, 2004, or 2003. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors 15 risk factors the company financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within the company control that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. information contained within this form 10-k should be carefully considered by investors in light of the risk factors described below. the company is heavily dependent on a single customer, the u. s. government, for a substantial portion of its business, and changes affecting this customer capacity to do business with the company could have a material adverse affect upon the company. approximately 90 percent of the company revenues during 2005 were derived from products and services ultimately sold to the u.s. government and are therefore affected by, among other things, the federal budget process. the company is a supplier, either directly or as a subcontractor or team member, to the u.s. government and its agencies as well as foreign governments and agencies. these contracts are subject to the respective customers political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, and in the case of contracts with the u.s. government, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes, the government ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. the termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the u.s. government could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations. in the event of termination for the government convenience, contractors are normally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred subsequent to termination. the company is involved in a lawsuit concerning a contract terminated for convenience. see other matters in part i, item 3. many of the company contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly in the company control and failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect the company profitability and future prospects. the company designs, develops and manufactures technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and components could prevent the company from achieving contractual requirements. in addition, the company products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems which could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure, problems with quality, country of origin, or delivery of subcontractor components or services, or unplanned degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen liabilities, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of progress payments and award fees. certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period of time. under such terms, the company could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and/or collected. the company has not experienced any significant losses in the last decade in connection with contract performance incentive provisions. however, if the company were to experience launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the future, such events could have a material adverse impact on the company financial position or results of operations. -15- table of contents northrop grumman corporation contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes the company to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that cannot be billed to the customer are incurred. this cost growth can occur if initial estimates used for calculating the contract price were incorrect, or if estimates to complete increase. the cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. reasons for cost growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. a significant change in an estimate on one or more programs could have a material effect on the company consolidated financial position or results of operations. due to their nature, fixed-price contracts inherently have more risk than cost-type contracts and therefore generally carry higher profit margins. approximately 35 percent of the company contracts are fixed-price see contracts in part ii, item 7. cost-type contracts may carry risk to the extent of their specific contract terms and conditions relating to performance award fees and negative performance incentives. the company typically enters into fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably estimated based on experience. in addition, certain contracts other than fixed-price contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. should the terms specified in those contracts not be met, then profitability may be reduced. fixed-price development work inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. as work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are reduced. in addition, successful performance of fixed-price development contracts, which include production units, is subject to the company ability to control cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. while management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price development programs, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. examples of the company significant fixed-price development contracts include the f-16 block 60 combat avionics program and the mesa radar system for the australian defence force project wedgetail program, both of which are performed by the electronic systems segment. it is also not unusual in the ships segment for the company to negotiate fixed-price production follow-on contracts before the development effort has been completed and learning curves fully realized on existing contracts. examples of negotiated fixed-price programs with follow-on production options are the polar tanker program and the virginia-class submarine program. the company operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws, regulations and restrictions, and noncompliance with these laws, regulations and restrictions could expose the company to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment, which could have a material adverse affect on the company profitability and its overall financial position. the company has thousands of contracts and operations in many parts of the world subject to u.s. and foreign laws and regulations. prime contracts with various agencies of the u.s. government and subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including the false claims act and the international traffic in arms regulation promulgated under the arms export control act, with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all u.s. government agencies. given the company dependence on u.s. government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company. in addition, international business subjects the company to numerous u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. failure by the company or its sales representatives or consultants to -16- table of contents northrop grumman corporation comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could in the extreme case result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of the company export privileges, which could have a material effect on the company. changes in regulation or political environment may affect the company ability to conduct business in foreign markets including investment, procurement, and repatriation of earnings. the company operates in a highly regulated environment and is routinely audited by the u.s. government and others. on a regular basis, the company monitors its policies and procedures with respect to its contracts to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions and to assess compliance with all applicable government regulations. negative audit findings could result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, or suspension of payments. from time to time the company is subject to u.s. government investigations relating to its operations. government contractors that are found to have violated the law such as the false claims act or the arms export control act, or are indicted or convicted for violations of other federal laws, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, may be subject to significant fines. such convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracting for some period of time. given the company dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company business is subject to disruption caused by issues with its suppliers, subcontractors, workforce, natural disasters and other factors that could adversely affect the company profitability and its overall financial position. the company may be affected by delivery or performance issues with key suppliers and subcontractors, as well as other factors that may cause operating results to be adversely affected. operating results are also dependent on successful negotiation of collective bargaining agreements. changes in inventory requirements or other production cost increases may also have a negative effect on the company consolidated results of operations. the company has significant operations located in regions of the united states where damaging storms are somewhat common. while preventative measures typically help to minimize harm to the company, the damage and disruption resulting from certain storms may be significant. although no assurances can be made, the company believes it can recover costs associated with natural disasters through insurance or its contracts. the company has substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce the company operating income. goodwill accounts for approximately half of the company recorded total assets. the company evaluates the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. the company is subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against the company requiring material future cash payments, and/or future material charges against the company operating income and materially impairing the company financial position. the size and complexity of the company business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. the company is subject to environmental claims, income tax matters and other litigation, which, if not resolved within established accruals, could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see legal proceedings in part i, item 3. -17- table of contents northrop grumman corporation pension and medical expense associated with the company retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions and future market performance of plan assets. a substantial portion of the company current and retired employee population are covered by pension and post-retirement obligation plans, the costs of which are dependent upon the company estimates of rates of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trend rates for future costs, and variances from these estimates could adversely affect the company profitability and overall financial position. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. the company insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of its significant risks or its insurers may deny coverage of material losses incurred by the company, which could adversely affect the company profitability and overall financial position. the company endeavors to identify and cover through insurance agreements significant risks of loss including, without limitation, natural disasters, business interruption and products liability, but there may be disputes with carriers over coverage that may affect timing of cash flows or, if the outcome is unfavorable, may have an adverse effect on results of operations. for example, we are in dispute with one of our insurance carriers with regard to hurricane katrina (see notes 2 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8). the company forward looking statements and projections may prove to be inaccurate and this could impair the company ability to access the capital markets and obtain adequate sources of capital to meet its future needs. statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as believe, project, expect, estimate, assume, intend, anticipate, and variations thereof and similar terms are intended to be forward-looking statements as defined by federal securities law. while these forward-looking statements reflect the company best estimates when made, actual results may differ materially from those estimates or projections. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rates the company is exposed to market risk, primarily related to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed-rate long-term debt obligations, variable-rate short-term debt outstanding under the credit agreement, short-term investments, and long-term notes receivable. at december 31, 2005, substantially all borrowings were fixed-rate long-term debt obligations of which a significant portion are not callable until maturity. the company sensitivity to a 1 percent change in interest rates is tied to its $2 billion credit agreement, which had no balance outstanding at december 31, 2005, or 2004. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors 8 the company was originally formed in 1939 as northrop corporation and was later reincorporated in delaware in 1985. some of the most notable acquisitions during the last two decades included the acquisition of grumman corporation (grumman) in 1994, after which time the company was renamed northrop grumman corporation. grumman was a premier military aircraft systems integrator and builder of the lunar module that first delivered men to the surface of the moon. in 1996, we acquired the defense and electronics businesses of westinghouse electric corporation (westinghouse), which now forms the nucleus of the electronics systems segment. westinghouse was a world leader in the development and production of sophisticated radar and other electronic systems for the nation defense, civil aviation, and other international and domestic applications. in 2001, we acquired litton industries, a global electronics and information technology enterprise, and one of the nation leading full-service design, engineering, construction, and life cycle supporters of major surface ships for the united states (u.s.) navy, u.s. coast guard, and international navies. also in 2001, we acquired newport news shipbuilding, the nation sole designer, builder and refueler of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and one of only two companies designing and building nuclear-powered submarines. in 2002, we acquired trw inc. (trw), a leading developer of military and civil space systems and satellite payloads, as well as a leading global integrator of complex, mission-enabling systems and services. other more recent acquisitions included the acquisition of integic corporation (2005), an information technology provider specializing in enterprise health and business process management solutions, and essex corporation (2007), a signal processing product and services provider to u.s. intelligence and defense customers. spin-off of shipbuilding business effective as of march 31, 2011, the company completed the spin-off to its shareholders of huntington ingalls industries, inc. (hii). hii operates our former shipbuilding business. the spin-off was the culmination of the company decision to explore strategic alternatives for shipbuilding, as it was determined to be in the best interests of shareholders, customers, and employees by allowing the company and shipbuilding to pursue more effectively their respective opportunities to maximize value. as a result of the spin-off, assets, liabilities and results of operations for the former shipbuilding segment have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. see note 6 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 for further information. organization from time to time, we acquire or dispose of businesses, and realign contracts, programs or business areas among and within our operating segments that possess similar customers, expertise, and capabilities. internal realignments are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities and enhance development and delivery of products and services. the operating results for all periods presented have been revised to reflect these changes made through december 31, 2011. we are currently aligned into four operating segments: aerospace systems, electronic systems, information systems, and technical services. see note 7 to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. -1- table of contents northrop grumman corporation aerospace systems aerospace systems, headquartered in redondo beach, california, is a leader in the design, development, integration and production of manned and unmanned aircraft, spacecraft, high-energy laser systems, microelectronics and other systems and subsystems. aerospace systems customers, primarily domestic government agencies, use these systems in many different mission areas including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance; communications; battle management; strike operations; electronic warfare; missile defense; earth observation; space science; and space exploration. the segment consists of four business areas: strike &amp; surveillance systems; space systems; battle management &amp; engagement systems; and advanced programs &amp; technology. strike &amp; surveillance systems designs, develops, manufactures and integrates tactical and long-range strike aircraft systems, unmanned systems, and missile systems. key programs include the rq-4 global hawk unmanned reconnaissance system, b-2 stealth bomber, f-35 lightning ii (f-35), f/a-18 super hornet strike fighter, minuteman iii intercontinental ballistic missile (icbm), mq-8b fire scout unmanned aircraft system, and multi-platform radar technology insertion program (mp-rtip). space systems designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates spacecraft systems, subsystems and electronic and communications payloads. major programs include the james webb space telescope (jwst), advanced extremely high frequency (aehf) payload and many restricted programs. battle management &amp; engagement systems designs, develops, manufactures, and integrates airborne early warning, surveillance, battlefield management, and electronic warfare systems. key programs include the e-2 hawkeye, joint surveillance target attack radar system (joint stars), broad area maritime surveillance (bams) unmanned aircraft system, ea-6b prowler and its next generation platform, the ea-18g growler, and long endurance multi intelligence vehicle (lemv). advanced programs &amp; technology creates advanced technologies and concepts to satisfy existing and emerging customer needs. this business area matures these technologies and concepts to create and capture new programs that other aerospace systems business areas can execute. existing programs include the navy unmanned combat air system (n-ucas), and other directed energy and advanced concepts programs. electronic systems electronic systems, headquartered in linthicum, maryland, is a leader in the design, development, manufacture, and support of solutions for sensing, understanding, anticipating, and controlling the environment for our global military, civil, and commercial customers and their operations. electronic systems provides a variety of defense electronics and systems, airborne fire control radars, situational awareness systems, early warning systems, airspace management systems, navigation systems, communications systems, marine systems, space systems, and logistics services. the segment consists of five business areas: intelligence, surveillance, &amp; reconnaissance systems; land &amp; self protection systems; naval &amp; marine systems; navigation systems; and targeting systems. intelligence, surveillance &amp; reconnaissance (isr) systems delivers products and services for space satellite applications, airborne and ground based surveillance, multi-sensor processing, analysis, and dissemination for combat units and national agencies both domestically and internationally, providing battlespace awareness, missile defense, and command and control. the division continues to develop advanced space-based radar and electro-optical early warning and surveillance systems for strategic, tactical, and weather operations along with systems for enhancing the discovery, sharing, and exploitation of isr data. key products include the space-based infrared system (sbirs), defense meteorological satellite program (dmsp), defense support program (dsp), ground processing, exploitation and dissemination systems, the tps-78/703 family of ground based surveillance radars, and the multi-role electronically scanned array (mesa) radar. land &amp; self protection systems delivers products, systems, and services that support ground-based, helicopter and fixed wing platforms (manned and unmanned) with sensor and protection systems. these systems perform threat detection and countermeasures that defeat infrared and radio frequency (rf) guided missile and tracking systems. -2- table of contents northrop grumman corporation the division also provides integrated electronic warfare capability, communications, and intelligence systems; unattended ground sensors; automatic test equipment; and advanced threat simulators. key programs include the u.s. marine corps ground/air task oriented radar (g/ator) multi-mission radar; the large aircraft infrared countermeasures (laircm) system for the u.s. air force, u.s. navy, and strategic international and nato allies; the an/alq-131(v) electronic countermeasures pod; the lr-100 high-performance radar warning receiver (rwr)/electronic support measures (esm)/electronic intelligence (elint) receiver system; the u.s. army starlite synthetic aperture radar for unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs); the u.s. army vehicle intercom systems (vic-3 and vic-5); the u.s. army next generation automated test system (ngats); the u.s. air force joint threat emitter (jte) training range system; and the vehicle and dismount exploitation radar (vader) system that enable airborne platforms to track individual persons or vehicles. naval &amp; marine systems delivers products and services to defense, civil, and commercial customers supporting smart navigation, shipboard radar surveillance, ship control, machinery control, integrated combat management systems for naval surface ships, high-resolution undersea sensors (for mine hunting, situational awareness, and other applications), unmanned marine vehicles, shipboard missile and encapsulated payload launch systems, propulsion and power generation systems, and nuclear reactor instrumentation and control. key products include integrated bridge and navigation systems, voyage management system, integrated platform management systems, integrated combat management system, an/wsn-7 inertial navigator, anti-ship missile defense and surveillance radars (cobra judy, an/spq-9b, an/sps-74), propulsion equipment, missile launch, and sonar systems for the virginia- class submarine, and launch system support for the ohio -class submarine. navigation systems delivers products and services to defense, civil, and commercial customers supporting situational awareness, inertial navigation in all domains (air, land, sea, and space), embedded global positioning systems, identification friend or foe (iff) systems, acoustic sensors, cockpit video monitors, mission computing, and integrated avionics and electronics systems. key products include the integrated avionics system, the an/tyq-23 aircraft command and control system, fiber optic acoustic sensors, and a robust portfolio of inertial sensors and navigation systems. targeting systems delivers products and services supporting airborne combat avionics (fire control radars, multi-function apertures and pods), airborne electro-optical/infrared targeting systems, and laser/electro-optical systems including hand-held, tripod-mounted, and ground or air vehicle mounted systems. key products include fire control radars for the b-1b, f-16 (worldwide), f-22 u.s. air force, and f-35; an/apn-241 navigation/weather radar; the an/aaq-28(v) litening family of targeting pods; distributed aperture eo/ir systems; and the lightweight laser designator rangefinder (lldr). in addition to the product and service lines discussed above, the electronic systems segment also includes the advanced concepts &amp; technologies division (ac&amp;td), which develops next-generation systems and architectures to position the segment in key developing markets. ac&amp;td focuses on understanding customer mission needs; conceiving affordable, innovative and open solutions; and demonstrating the readiness and effectiveness of electronic systems products, including all types of sensors, microsystems, and associated information systems. the segment uses a product ownership approach, which guides the transition of new technology from laboratory to market and implements modular open system product families that are readily reconfigurable and scalable to affordably support new requirements, new products, or component obsolescence. information systems information systems, headquartered in mclean, virginia, is a leading provider of advanced solutions for the dod, national intelligence, federal civilian, state and local agencies, and commercial and international customers. products and services focus on the fields of command, control, communications, computers (c4) and intelligence; airborne reconnaissance; intelligence processing; air and missile defense; decision support systems; cybersecurity; information technology; and systems engineering and integration. the segment consists of three business areas: defense systems; intelligence systems; and civil systems. -3- table of contents northrop grumman corporation defense systems is a major end-to-end provider of net-enabled battle management, c4 intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (c4isr) systems, decision superiority, and mission-enabling solutions and services in support of the national defense and security of our nation and its allies. defense systems is a prime developer and integrator of many of the dod programs-of-record, particularly for command and control (c2) and communications for the u.s. air force, u.s. army, u.s. navy, and joint forces. major products and services include c4isr integration, mission systems integration, military communications and networks, battle management c2 and decision support systems, tactical and operational c2, ground and maritime combat systems, air and missile defense, combat support solutions and services, enterprise infrastructure and applications, defense logistics systems, identity management and biometric solutions, cloud computing, maritime mission systems and force and critical infrastructure protection. systems are installed in operational and command centers worldwide and across all dod services and joint commands. intelligence systems is focused on the delivery of intelligence-related systems and services to the u.s. government and the international security community. intelligence systems focuses on several mission areas including airborne intelligence, signals intelligence (sigint) systems, cybersecurity, geospatial intelligence, pervasive intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (isr), ground systems, multi-source intelligence data fusion, and dynamic cyber defense. major offerings include large-scale intelligence sensing, processing, exploitation and dissemination systems, extremely large-scale data information management, intelligence and prime systems integration, knowledge discovery processes, isr/communications quick reaction capability solutions, sensor systems, support to special operations, cyber-sigint mission management/multi-intelligence, language services/intelligence analysis, cyber exploitation, satellite ground stations, weather services, geospatial systems, product generation and dissemination, counter narco-terrorism, drug enforcement operations, geo-intelligence tradecraft training, enterprise information technology, ground-based sensing, studies and analysis, sustainment, operations and maintenance. civil systems provides specialized information systems and services in support of critical civilian government missions, such as homeland security, health, cybersecurity, civil financial, law enforcement and public safety. primary customers are federal civilian agencies with some state and local and international customers. civil systems develops and implements solutions that combine a deep understanding of civil government domains with core expertise in prime systems integration, enterprise applications development, and high value information technology service including cybersecurity, advanced networking and cloud computing. technical services technical services, headquartered in herndon, virginia, is a provider of logistics, infrastructure, and sustainment support, while also providing an array of modernization, high technology, and training and simulation services. the segment consists of three business areas: defense and government services; training solutions; and integrated logistics and modernization. defense and government services provides maintenance, repair, and overhaul (mro) of combat vehicles, engineering and high technology services for nuclear security and space missions, civil engineering work, military range work, launch services, and range-sensor-instrumentation operations. the division customer base includes the u.s. army, department of energy, the dod, nasa, and the intelligence community. training solutions provides realistic and comprehensive training to senior military leaders, international and peacekeeping forces. the division designs and develops future conflict training scenarios, and provides warfighters and allies with live, virtual, and constructive training programs. the division has supported the training of america senior battlefield commanders for every major contingency beginning with gulf war i through operation iraqi freedom. the division offers diverse training applications ranging from battle command to professional military education. primary customers include the dod, department of state, and department of homeland security. integrated logistics and modernization provides complete life cycle product and weapon system sustainment and modernization. the division is focused on providing direct support to warfighters and delivering aircraft mro; -4- table of contents northrop grumman corporation subsystem mro and modernization; supply chain management services, warehousing and inventory transportation, field services and mobilization, sustaining engineering, maintenance, repair and overhaul supplies, and on-going weapons maintenance and technical assistance. the division specializes in quick reaction capability and deployed operations in support of customers. primary customers include the dod, as well as international military and commercial customers. corporate our principal executive offices are located at 2980 fairview park drive, falls church, virginia 22042. our telephone number is (703) 280-2900 and our home page on the internet is www.northropgrumman.com. references to our website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. such information should not be considered part of this report. selected financial data and summary segment financial data for a more complete understanding of our business, see selected financial data in part ii, item 6. for a more complete understanding of our segment financial information, see segment operating results in part ii, item 7, and note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. customers and revenue concentration our primary customer is the u.s. government. revenue from the u.s. government (which includes foreign military sales a method to sell u.s. defense equipment, services and training to foreign governments through the dod) accounted for more than 90 percent of total revenues in each of 2011, 2010, and 2009. no single product or service accounted for more than ten percent of total revenue during any period presented. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. patents the following table summarizes the number of patents we own or have pending as of december 31, 2011: owned pending total u.s. patents 2,941 311 3,252 foreign patents 2,181 517 2,698 total 5,122 828 5,950 patents developed while under contract with the u.s. government may be subject to use by the u.s. government. we license intellectual property to, and from, third parties. we believe our ability to conduct operations would not be materially affected by the loss of any particular intellectual property right. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. seasonality no material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. our revenue recognition timing is based on several factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, cost estimation, and in some cases unit deliveries. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments revenue recognition in part ii, item 7. backlog total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). unexercised contract options and unfunded indefinite delivery indefinite quantity (idiq) orders (except for authorized task orders, which are included up to the authorized value) are not included in unfunded -5- table of contents northrop grumman corporation backlog. for multi-year services contracts with non-federal government customers having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. backlog is converted into sales as work is performed or deliveries are made. at december 31, 2011, total backlog was $39.5 billion, compared with $46.8 billion at the end of 2010, and includes a $3 billion adjustment for a change in the company backlog measurement criteria, which acknowledges, in our judgment, the reduced likelihood of amounts remaining on certain open, but unfulfilled contracts, being realized as future sales. approximately 59 percent of backlog at december 31, 2011, is expected to be converted into sales in 2012. for backlog by segment, see backlog in part ii, item 7. raw materials while we have generally been able to obtain key raw materials required in our production processes in a timely manner, a significant delay in supply deliveries could have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. see risk factors in part i, item 1a and overview outlook in part ii, item 7. government contract regulation our businesses are affected by numerous laws and regulations, including those relating to the award, administration and performance of u.s. government contracts. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate our contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. if a u.s. government contract were to be terminated for convenience, we would generally be protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. in the unusual circumstance where a u.s. government contract does not have such termination protection, we attempt to mitigate the termination risk through other means. termination resulting from our default may expose us to liability and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for other contracts. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. certain programs with the u.s. government that are prohibited by the customer from being publicly discussed in detail are referred to as restricted in this form 10-k. the consolidated financial statements and financial information in this form 10-k reflect the operating results of restricted programs under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (gaap). research and development our research and development activities primarily include independent research and development (ir&amp;d) efforts related to government programs. ir&amp;d expenses are included in general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to u.s. government contracts. company-sponsored ir&amp;d expenses totaled $543 million, $580 million, and $588 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. expenses for research and development sponsored by the customer are charged directly to the related contracts. employee relations we believe that we maintain good relations with our 72,500 employees, of which approximately 3,400 are covered by 17 collective bargaining agreements. we negotiated or re-negotiated three of our collective bargaining agreements in 2011 and expect to re-negotiate renewals for nine of our collective bargaining agreements in 2012. these negotiations had no material adverse effect on our results of operations. for risks associated with collective bargaining agreements, see risk factors in part i, item 1a. environmental matters our manufacturing operations are subject to and affected by federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. the estimated cost to complete remediation is accrued when it is probable that the company will incur costs to address environmental impacts at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities or at sites where the company has been named a potentially responsible party (prp) by -6- table of contents northrop grumman corporation the environmental protection agency or similarly designated by other environmental agencies. to assess the potential impact on the company financial statements, management estimates the range of reasonably possible remediation costs that could be incurred by the company, taking into account the facts currently available to the company regarding each site as well as the current state of technology and prior experience. these estimates are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect changes in facts and circumstances. as of december 31, 2011, management estimates the range of reasonably possible future costs for environmental remediation is $294 million to $752 million. see risk factors in part i, item 1a. as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, amounts accrued for probable environmental remediation costs are $322 million and $313 million, respectively. we record accruals for environmental cleanup costs in the accounting period in which we believe it becomes probable we have incurred a liability and the costs can be reasonably estimated, based on facts as then understood by us. these accruals do not include any litigation costs, nor do they include amounts recorded as asset retirement obligations. we record insurance recoveries only when we determine that collection is probable. a portion of the environmental remediation costs is expected to be recoverable through overhead charges on government contracts and, accordingly, such amounts are deferred in inventoried costs (current portion) and miscellaneous other assets (non-current portion) in the consolidated statements of financial position. as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, deferred environmental remediation costs totaled $191 million and $185 million, respectively. factors that could result in changes to the company estimates include, but are not limited to: modification of planned remedial actions, increases or decreases in the estimated time required to remediate, changes to the determination of responsible parties and their ability to pay, changes in the level of estimated contamination, changes in laws and regulations affecting remediation requirements, improvements in remediation technology and changes in estimated amounts recoverable through overhead charges on government contracts. in addition, there are some potential remediation sites where the costs of remediation cannot be reasonably estimated. although management cannot predict whether new information gained as projects progress will materially affect the estimated liability accrued, management does not anticipate that future remediation expenditures will have a material adverse effect on the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including but not limited to, those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as green initiatives. in 2009, we established a goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions over a five-year period through december 31, 2014. in 2010, we established goals for water usage and solid waste generation. to comply with laws, regulations and green initiatives, including our goals, we have incurred and expect to incur capital and operating costs, but at this time, such costs have not had, and we do not expect that such costs will have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. competitive conditions we compete with many companies in the u.s. defense industry and the information and services markets for a number of programs, both large and small. in the u.s. defense industry, lockheed martin corporation, the boeing company, raytheon company, general dynamics corporation, l-3 communications corporation, saic, bae systems inc., eads, and finmeccanica spa are our primary competitors. intense competition and long operating cycles are both key characteristics of our business and the defense industry. it is common in the defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. a company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, become a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. it is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa. the nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity, not frequently found in other industries. our success in the competitive defense industry depends upon our ability to develop and market our products and services, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity -7- table of contents northrop grumman corporation needed to deliver those products and services affordably and efficiently. like most of our competitors, we are vertically integrated but also have a high reliance on the supply chain. we must continue to maintain dependable sources for raw materials, fabricated parts, electronic components, and major subassemblies. in this increasingly complex manufacturing and systems integration environment, effective oversight of subcontractors and suppliers is vital to our success. similarly, there is intense competition among many companies in the information and services markets, which are generally more labor intensive with highly competitive margin rates and contract performance periods of shorter duration. competitors in the information and services markets include the defense industry participants mentioned above as well as many other large and small entities with specialized expertise. our ability to successfully compete in the information and services markets depends on a number of factors. the most important factor is the ability to deploy skilled professionals, many requiring security clearances, at competitive prices across the diverse spectrum of these markets. accordingly, we have implemented various workforce initiatives to enhance our success in attracting, developing and retaining these skilled professionals in sufficient numbers to maintain or improve our competitive position within these markets. in both the u.s. defense industry and information and services markets, the federal government has stressed competition and affordability in connection with its future procurement of products and services. this may lead to fewer sole source awards, as well as more emphasis on cost competitiveness. in addition, the dod has announced several initiatives to improve efficiency, refocus priorities, modify contract terms, and enhance dod best practices including those used to procure goods and services from defense contractors. see overview and the economic opportunities, challenges, and risks sections in part ii, item 7, as well as risk factors in part i, item 1a. these initiatives, when implemented, together with planned reductions in defense spending levels, are likely to result in fewer new opportunities for our industry as a whole with more demanding terms. a reduced opportunity set is likely to intensify competition within the industry as companies compete for a more limited set of new programs. executive officers see part iii, item 10, for information about our executive officers. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and proxy statement for the annual shareholders meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the sec. you can learn more about us by reviewing our sec filings on the investor relations page of our web site at www.northropgrumman.com. the sec also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about sec registrants, including northrop grumman. you may also obtain these materials at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you can obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. references to our website and the sec website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, such websites. item1a. risk factors our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. we urge you to carefully consider the risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report. -8- table of contents northrop grumman corporation we depend heavily on a single customer, the u.s. government, for a substantial portion of our business. changes in this customer priorities and changes affecting its ability to do business with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our primary customer is the u.s government, from which we derived more than 90 percent of our total revenues during each of the past several years. the federal government is implementing significant changes and reductions to government spending and other programs. we cannot predict the impact on existing, follow-on or replacement programs from potential changes in priorities due to changes in defense spending levels, military transformation and planning, and/or changes in social-political priorities. a shift in government priorities to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate, unless offset by other programs and opportunities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, we believe uncertainty and other concerns resulting from previously announced proposed defense spending reductions and potential additional reductions, including under the budget control act of 2011 (the budget control act), have impacted and are likely to continue to impact the manner in which our u.s. government customers manage programs and/or make procurement decisions, resulting in delays and reductions in payments and procurements. similar challenges and uncertainty faced by some of our international government customers could also lead to delays and/or reductions. in addition, the u.s. government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for its convenience or for default based on performance. in the event of termination for the u.s. government convenience, contractors are generally protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. in some circumstances, however, a u.s. government contract does not have such termination protection. in those cases, we attempt to mitigate the termination risk through other means. to the extent such means are unavailable or do not fully address the costs incurred or profit on those costs, we could face significant losses from the termination for convenience of a contract that lacks termination protection. termination by the u.s. government of a contract for convenience could also result in the cancellation of future work on that program. termination by the u.s. government of a contract due to our default could require us to pay for re-procurement costs in excess of the original contract price, net of the value of work accepted from the original contract, as well as other damages. termination of a contract due to our default may expose us to material liability and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for other contracts. significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs and federal government funding more broadly may negatively impact our business and programs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to an annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. for many programs, congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though the program performance period may extend typically several years. consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if we incur costs in excess of funds committed on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs until additional funds are appropriated. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the annual budget process ultimately approved by congress or in separate supplemental appropriations or continuing resolutions, as applicable. the impact, severity and duration of the current u.s. economic situation and economic plans adopted or to be adopted by the u.s. government, along with pressures on, and uncertainty surrounding, the federal budget, could adversely affect the funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. in the event that government funding for any of our programs becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government or the prime contractor, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and/or cash flows. -9- table of contents northrop grumman corporation in august 2011, congress enacted the budget control act which, while raising the existing statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt, also committed the u.s. government to significantly reducing the federal deficit over ten years. the budget control act established caps on discretionary spending through 2021, reducing federal spending by approximately $940 billion relative to the fiscal year 2012 presidential budget submission. it also established a joint committee of congress (the joint committee) that was responsible for identifying an additional $1.2 to $1.5 trillion in deficit reductions by november 23, 2011. the joint committee was unable to identify the additional deficit reductions by this deadline thereby triggering a second provision of the budget control act called sequestration, which calls for very substantial automatic spending cuts split between defense and non-defense programs scheduled to start in 2013 and continue over a nine-year period. while we believe efforts may be underway to prevent the automatic spending cuts scheduled to begin in 2013, the outcome of these efforts is uncertain, and we are unable to predict the impact that either identified or automatic cuts would have on funding for our individual programs. long-term funding for certain programs in which we participate is likely to be reduced, delayed or cancelled. in addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of the suppliers and subcontractors under our programs. while we believe that our business is well-positioned in areas that the dod has indicated are areas of focus for future defense spending, the impact of the budget control act remains uncertain and our business and industry could be materially adversely affected. in january 2012, the secretary of defense announced a number of program changes and cancellations that are scheduled to take place over the next several years, in part to comply with certain provisions of the budget control act. certain of these program changes and cancellations are expected to have an impact on programs in which we participate. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to various procurement regulations and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a u.s. government audit or investigation. u.s. government contractors must comply with many significant procurement regulations and other requirements. these regulations and requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. new regulations or procurement requirements (including, for example, regarding counterfeit parts) or changes to current ones, could increase our costs and risks of compliance and reduce our margins. we operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the u.s. government and its agencies, such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa) and defense contract management agency (dcma). these agencies review performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. systems that are subject to review include, but are not limited to, our accounting systems, purchasing systems, billing systems, property management and control systems, cost estimating systems, compensation systems and management information systems. any costs ultimately found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions or suspension or debarment from doing business with the u.s. government. whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the u.s. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. if such actions were to result in suspension or debarment, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. the u.s. government, from time to time, recommends to its contractors that certain contract prices be reduced, or that costs allocated to certain contracts be disallowed. these recommendations can involve substantial amounts. in the past, as a result of such audits and other investigations and inquiries, we have on occasion reduced our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. we are also, from time to time, subject to u.s. government investigations relating to our operations, and we are subject to or expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws, including but not limited to the truth in negotiations act, the false claims act, the procurement integrity act, cost accounting -10- table of contents northrop grumman corporation standards, federal acquisition regulation (far), the international traffic in arms regulations promulgated under the arms export control act, the close the contractor fraud loophole act and the foreign corrupt practices act. if we are found to have violated the law, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination and the assessment of penalties, fines, or compensatory or treble damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. such matters could also result in suspension or debarment. given our dependence on government contracting and authorizations, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. changes to business practices for u.s. government contractors could have a significant adverse effect on current programs, potential new awards and the processes by which procurements are awarded and managed. our industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices as a result of an increased focus on affordability, efficiencies, and recovery of costs, among other items, and a reprioritization of available defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. for example, the dod better buying power initiative is designed to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, refocus priorities and enhance business practices used by the dod, including those used to procure goods, services and solutions from defense contractors. in addition, the dcaa has implemented cost recovery initiatives designed to prioritize efforts to recover costs and close open audits. more recently, the thresholds for certain allowable costs are being challenged and refined. these new initiatives have had, and we expect them to continue to have, a significant impact on the contracting environment in which we do business. in support of the implementation of the better buying power initiative, the u.s. government is issuing a large number of new regulations and statutory requirements which are shifting additional responsibility and performance risks to the contractor. this is also being accomplished by the government increased reliance on the use of fixed price incentive contracts with specifically identified fee share line structures rather than cost type or fixed price contracts. while the full impact to our business as a result of these changes remains uncertain, and subject to the manner in which they are implemented, our business and industry could be materially adversely affected. competition within our markets and an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities or be able to assume lower costs than we do in some areas or programs. we have seen, and anticipate that we will continue to see, increased competition in some of our core markets, especially as a result of the reduction in budgets for many u.s. government agencies and fewer new program starts. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, projected u.s. defense spending levels for periods beyond the near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. changes in u.s. defense spending may limit certain future market opportunities. we are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, may turn to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share, which could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we are also experiencing an increasing number of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. bid protests could result in the award decision being overturned, and a re-bid of the contract. even where a bid protest does not result in a new award, the resolution can extend the time until the contract activity can begin, and delay potential earnings. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and new technologies and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers. many of the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. the product, program and service needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. our success in the competitive -11- table of contents northrop grumman corporation defense industry depends upon our ability to develop and market our products and services, as well as our ability to provide the people, technologies, facilities, equipment and financial capacity needed to deliver those products and services with maximum efficiency. if we fail to maintain our competitive position, we could lose a significant amount of future business to our competitors, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate favorable financial results and maintain market share. our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient personnel with requisite skills and/or security clearances. if qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees. failure to maintain a qualified workforce could result in difficulty in performing under our contracts. approximately 3,400 of our 72,500 employees are covered by an aggregate of 17 collective bargaining agreements, and we expect to negotiate or re-negotiate renewals for nine of our collective bargaining agreements in 2012. collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years, and are subject to renegotiation upon expiration. we may experience difficulties with renewals and renegotiations of existing collective bargaining agreements. if we experience such difficulties, we could incur additional expenses and may be subject to work stoppages. any such expenses or delays could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control. failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. we design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and innovative products and services, which are applied by our customers in a variety of environments. problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, manufacturing materials or components could prevent us from achieving contractual requirements. in addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. examples of unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability include loss on launch of spacecraft, premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and degradation of product performance. these failures could result, either directly or indirectly, in loss of life or property. among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract cost and fee payments we previously received. certain contracts, primarily involving space satellite systems, contain provisions that entitle the customer to recover fees in the event of partial or complete failure of the system upon launch or subsequent deployment for less than a specified period of time. under such terms, we could be required to forfeit fees previously recognized and/or collected. we have not experienced any material losses in the last decade in connection with such contract performance incentive provisions. however, if we were to experience launch failures or complete satellite system failures in the future, for example, such events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. contract cost growth on fixed-price and other contracts that cannot be justified as an increase in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business. our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. this cost growth can occur if estimates to complete increase due to a variety of reasons including: technical challenges; manufacturing difficulties or delays; or workforce-related issues; and where initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost were incorrect. the cost -12- table of contents northrop grumman corporation estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. reasons for cost growth may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the timelines and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance and quality of their products, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete, including additional pension-related costs that may arise from the new rule published by the cost accounting standards (cas) board discussed further in the pension and medical expenses risk factor below. a significant change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our risk varies with the type of contract. flexibly priced contracts include both cost-type and fixed-price incentive contracts. due to their nature, firm fixed-price contracts inherently have more risk than flexibly priced contracts. in 2011, approximately 41 percent of our annual revenues were derived from firm fixed-price contracts. we typically enter into firm fixed-price contracts where costs can be reasonably estimated based on experience. in addition, our contracts contain provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights. should the terms specified in our contracts not be met, then profitability may be reduced. fixed-price development work comprises a small portion of our firm fixed-price contracts and inherently has more uncertainty as to future events than production contracts and therefore more variability in estimates of the costs to complete the development stage. as work progresses through the development stage into production, the risks associated with estimating the total costs of the contract are generally reduced. in addition, successful performance of firm fixed-price development contracts that include production units is subject to our ability to control some cost growth in meeting production specifications and delivery rates. while management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price development contracts, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates. under a typical fixed-price incentive contract, the allowable costs incurred by the contractor are subject to reimbursement, but are subject to a cost-share limit, which affects profitability. under a cost-type contract, the allowable costs incurred by the contractor are also subject to reimbursement plus a fee that represents profit. we typically enter into cost-type contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges. these cost-type programs typically have award or incentive fees that are subject to uncertainty and may be earned over extended periods. in these cases, the associated financial risks are primarily in lower profit rates or program cancellation if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise. we use estimates when accounting for contracts. changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position. when agreeing to contractual terms, our management makes assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. these projections assess the productivity and availability of labor, complexity of the work to be performed, cost and availability of materials, impact of delayed performance and timing of product deliveries. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, assumptions are made regarding the length of time to complete a contract since costs also include expected increases in wages, prices for materials and allocated fixed costs. similarly, assumptions are made regarding the future impact of our efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. incentives, awards or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. suppliers assertions are also assessed and considered in estimating costs and profit rates. because of the significance of the judgment and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying -13- table of contents northrop grumman corporation circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon the profitability of one or more of the affected contracts, future period financial reporting and performance. see critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgments in part ii, item 7. our earnings and margins depend, in part, on subcontractor performance as well as raw material and component availability and pricing. we rely on other companies to provide raw materials and major components for our products and rely on subcontractors to produce hardware elements and sub-assemblies and perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. disruptions or performance problems caused by our subcontractors and vendors could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. our ability to perform our obligations on time as a prime contractor could be adversely affected if one or more of the vendors or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. our costs may increase over the term of our contracts. through cost escalation provisions contained in some of our u.s. government contracts, we may be protected from increases in material costs to the extent that the increases in our costs are in line with industry indices. however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty even with these provisions. a significant delay in supply deliveries of our key raw materials required in our production processes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. in connection with our government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts from supply sources approved by the u.s. government. consistent with the industry efforts, our procurement practices are intended to reduce the likelihood of our procurement of counterfeit parts or materials. there are currently several components, for which there may only be one supplier. the inability of a sole source supplier to meet our needs or the appearance of counterfeit parts could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. changes in economic conditions, as well as changes in the defense budget, can adversely affect the ability of our subcontractors and suppliers to perform and further increase this risk. changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill and other intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income. goodwill accounts for approximately half of our recorded total assets. we evaluate goodwill amounts for impairment at least annually or more often when we believe potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. we continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-lived assets. as part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates and we may experience unforeseen issues that adversely affect the value of our goodwill or intangible assets. our international business exposes us to additional risks. while our international business is not substantial, it remains subject to numerous u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws, and the anti-boycott provisions of the u.s. export administration act. failure by us, our employees,or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including suspension or debarment from government contracts or -14- table of contents northrop grumman corporation suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on us. changes in regulation or political environment may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets, including those regarding investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. our international business may also be impacted by changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets and may be further impacted by global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. in addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. the services and products we provide internationally, including those provided by subcontractors, are sometimes in countries with unstable governments, in areas of military conflict or at military installations. this increases the risk of an incident resulting in harm or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors or other third parties or damage to our products. we maintain insurance and take other steps to mitigate the risk and potential liabilities related to our international operations, but these steps may not be adequate to prevent loss or to cover resulting claims and liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial costs (see additional discussion of possible inadequacy of our insurance coverage below). in addition, any accidents or incidents that occur in connection with our international operations could result in negative publicity for the company, which may adversely affect our reputation and make it more difficult for us to compete for future contracts or attract and retain employees or result in the loss of existing and future contracts. the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. we have implemented extensive policies, procedures, training and other compliance controls to prevent misconduct by employees, agents or others with whom we are doing business that would violate the applicable laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing improper payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition and data privacy. however, we cannot ensure that we will prevent all such misconduct committed by our employees, agents or others with whom we are doing business. such improper actions could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension and debarment,that could negatively impact our reputation and ability to conduct business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including physical and cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. as a defense contractor, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information; threats to the safety of our directors, officers, and employees; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts. although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security threats from materializing. if any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information or capabilities, harm to personnel or infrastructure, or damage to our reputation, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. these events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. -15- table of contents northrop grumman corporation we also manage information technology systems for various customers and other third parties. while we operate under information security policies and procedures for managing these systems, we generally face similar cybersecurity threats for these systems as for our own. unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. in addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to climate change concerns and other actions commonly referred to as green initiatives. compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations currently requires and is expected to continue to require significant operating and capital costs. environmental laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may limit our operations or require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we also incur, and expect to continue to incur, costs to comply with current federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the general services administration. the listing could continue until the epa concludes that the cause of the violation had been corrected. if we were listed on the excluded parties list it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. listed facilities generally cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract until the violation is corrected. the adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, sanctions or penalties, could negatively impact our ability to recover such costs under previously priced contracts or financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us. the size, type and complexity of our business make us highly susceptible to claims and litigation. we are and may become subject to various environmental claims, income tax matters, compliance matters, claims, investigations, and administrative, civil or criminal litigation, which could divert financial and management resources and, could lead to fines, penalities, judgements, and other monetary and non-monetary results, including suspension or debarment, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. any investigation, claim, or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. we may be unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property. the u.s. government has certain rights to use certain intellectual property that we develop in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use certain such intellectual property. our intellectual property is subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. we also rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not protected by patents. we seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors and other parties, as well as through other measures. these agreements and other measures may not provide adequate protection for our unpatented proprietary -16- table of contents northrop grumman corporation information. in the event of an infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our intellectual property. litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management attention away from other aspects of our business. in addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. in some instances, we have licensed the proprietary intellectual property of others, but we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. if we are unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters and other factors that could adversely affect our profitability and our overall financial position. we have significant operations located in regions of the u.s. that may be exposed to earthquakes, damaging storms, and other natural disasters, including environmental disasters. although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. if insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms are unavailable or insufficient to recover all costs, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform under a contract. performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural and environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on the prime contract. this could reduce our profitability due to damages or other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor or from the customer, could result in a termination of the prime contract and could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. natural disasters could also disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, including computer and internet operation and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. these disruptions could cause adverse effects on our profitability and performance. our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial position. we endeavor to identify and obtain in established markets insurance agreements to cover significant risks and liabilities (including, for example, natural disasters and product liability). not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred, including for example, a catastrophic earthquake claim. additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows and, if litigation with the carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. anticipated benefits of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, spin-offs or strategic alliances may not be realized. as part of our overall strategy, we may, from time to time, merge with or acquire businesses, dispose of or spin-off businesses, form joint ventures or create strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying products, capabilities or technologies, the management of the operations and market conditions following these transactions. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges, liabilities, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets, guarantees, partner performance and indemnifications. divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through guarantees, indemnifications, or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. although we have established procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful. -17- table of contents northrop grumman corporation market volatility and adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and the ability of counterparties to perform on financial instruments. domestic and international financial and credit markets have experienced high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. historically, we have occasionally accessed these markets to support certain business activities, including acquisitions, capital expansion projects, refinancing existing debt and issuing letters of credit. in the future, we may not be able to obtain capital market financing or bank financing when needed on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we have also executed transactions with counterparties domestically and abroad in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional parties. these transactions expose us to potential credit risk in the event of counterparty default. a tightening of credit could also adversely affect our suppliers ability to obtain financing. delays in suppliers ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could cause us to be unable to meet our contract obligations and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. the inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay or the need for us to provide other supplemental means to support our existing suppliers. pension and medical expenses associated with our retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions, future investment performance of plan assets, future trends in health care costs and legislative or other regulatory actions. a substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and post-retirement benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon our various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. in addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. variances from these estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. additionally, due to government regulations, pension plan cost recoveries under our government contracts occur in different periods from when those pension costs are recognized for financial statement purposes or when pension funding is made. these timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. on december 27, 2011, the cas board published a final rule intended to partially harmonize the measurement and period of assignment of defined benefit pension plan costs allocable to u.s. government contracts and the minimum required contribution under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa), as amended by the pension protection act (ppa) of 2006. we anticipate that this rule will better align, but not eliminate, mismatches between erisa funding requirements and cas pension costs for u.s. government cas covered contracts. the rule becomes effective february 27, 2012, with 2013 being the first year of applicability for the revised accounting practices required by the rule. price proposals for cas covered contracts awarded on or after the effective date of february 27, 2012 will reflect the effects of the rule. although we believe that contractors are entitled to an equitable adjustment on cas covered contracts awarded prior to the february 27, 2012 effective date, the application of this rule on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to successfully recover such equitable adjustment. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many -18- table of contents northrop grumman corporation transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. in addition, timing differences in the recognition of income from contracts for financial statement purposes and for income tax regulations can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on our cash flow from operations in a particular period. furthermore, changes in applicable domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in our tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial reporting income and taxable income, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability and cash flow. our nuclear-related operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial and other risks. our nuclear-related operations subject us to various risks, including potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health that may result from nuclear-related operations and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials. we are also subject to reputational harm and potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident, whether or not it is within our control. the u.s. government and prime contractors provide certain indemnity protection under certain of our contracts pursuant to, or in connection with, public law 85-804 and the price-anderson nuclear industries indemnity act for certain nuclear-related risks. if there was a nuclear incident and that indemnity protection was not available to cover our losses and liabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. if all or any portion of the spin-off of our former shipbuilding business or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off transaction are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax may incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in connection with the spin-off of our former shipbuilding business, we received a letter ruling from the irs and an opinion of counsel confirming that we and our shareholders would not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the merger, the internal reorganization or the distribution, except that our shareholders who receive cash in lieu of fractional shares would recognize gain or loss with respect to such cash. the ruling and the opinion relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us and hii regarding the past and future conduct of the companies respective businesses and other matters. we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause any of the factual statements or representations in the irs ruling or the opinion to be incomplete or untrue at the time of the spin-off transaction. nevertheless, if the irs determines that any of the factual statements or representations that the irs ruling or the opinion was based on were incomplete or untrue, or if certain facts or circumstances upon which the irs ruling or the opinion was based were materially different from those at the time of the spin-off, we and our shareholders may not be able to rely on the irs ruling or the opinion of counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. even if the spin-off transaction otherwise qualifies as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the internal reorganization and distribution may be taxable to us (but not to our shareholders) if certain events occur, including, if within two years following the spin-off there are one or more acquisitions (including issuances) of the stock of either us or hii, representing 50% or more of the then-outstanding stock of either corporation and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution; we cease to engage appropriately in the conduct of a substantial part of our existing business; or, we or hii repurchase shares in excess of specified levels over a two-year period (which substantially exceed -19- table of contents northrop grumman corporation our historical repurchase activity level). if such tax were incurred, the tax liability would be substantial. hii has agreed not to undertake transactions that would reasonably be expected to trigger such tax, and we intend to avoid any such transactions. the spin-off of our former shipbuilding business may expose us to potential claims and liabilities. in connection with the spin-off transaction, we entered into a number of agreements with hii setting forth certain rights and obligations of the parties after the separation. for example, under the separation and distribution agreement, from and after the spin-off transaction, each of hii and northrop grumman is generally responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses that it owns and operates following the consummation of the spin-off. it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us and hii, and require that we assume responsibility for certain obligations allocated to hii (for example, tax and/or environmental liabilities), particularly if hii were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform such obligations. in addition, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities or obligations for which hii has agreed to be responsible and/or to indemnify us. the indemnity rights we have under our agreements with hii may not be sufficient to protect us against such liabilities. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from hii any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be required to record these losses ourselves until such time as the indemnity contribution is paid. in addition, certain indemnities that we may be required to provide hii are not subject to a cap, may be significant, and could negatively impact our business. these risks could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to market risk with respect to our portfolio of trading and available-for-sale marketable securities with a fair value of $223 million at december 31, 2011. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk with respect to our holdings of cash and cash equivalents of $3.0 billion at december 31, 2011, and we are also exposed to interest rate risk on variable-rate short-term credit facilities for which there were no borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2011. at december 31, 2011, we have $3.9 billion of long-term debt, primarily consisting of fixed rate debt, with a fair value of approximately $4.7 billion. derivatives we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. from time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2011, we have no interest rate swap agreements in effect. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risk with respect to our foreign operations. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to manage a portion of the exchange rate risk related to receipts from customers and payments to suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2011, foreign currency forward contracts with a notional amount of $233 million were outstanding. inflation risk we have generally been able to anticipate increases in costs when pricing our contracts. bids for longer-term firm fixed-price contracts typically include labor and other cost escalations in amounts that historically have been sufficient to cover cost increases over the period of performance. a 10 percent change in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material impact to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. -56- table of contents northrop grumman corporation