risk factors our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results, and from our projections. the risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our business and are important to understanding our business. the risks described below are not the only risks we face. additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect, to a material extent, our business, cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. in addition, you should refer to the description of forward-looking statements at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. our services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies: many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continually change. changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. failure to educate and assist our clients regarding new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse impact on our reputation. failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our clients and our business could be adversely impacted by health care reform: the ppaca was enacted on march 23, 2010 and was subsequently modified by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 on march 30, 2010 (together with ppaca hereafter referred to as the act ). the act entails sweeping health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 7 2010 through 2018, and many provisions of the act require the issuance of additional guidance from the u.s. departments of labor and heath &amp; human services, the internal revenue service (the irs ), and the states. the complexity of federal and state regulations facing employers has continued to increase over time, including the enactment of the act. as a service provider, we have a responsibility to our clients to help them understand these increased regulations. failure to provide clients with appropriate information or solutions to effectively manage their health care benefits and related costs could have an adverse impact on our reputation and a negative impact on our client base. there is no guarantee that solutions we have developed to help clients navigate health care legislation will be readily accepted by clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our insurance services business. insurance services revenue is at risk for lower commission revenue from underwriters if clients move away from traditional insurance policies utilized in the past or as a result of pressure on commission rates, driven by restrictions on insurers as to use of premiums. refer to the discussion below regarding changes in health insurance and workers' compensation insurance rates and underlying claims trends for discussion of health care reform as it impacts our peo. we may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our products and services: to maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients' requirements. we continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. if our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. there can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. if we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. our business and reputation may be affected by security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure, which could compromise company and personal customer information: we rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to support a variety of business processes. if we experience a problem with the functioning of key systems or a security breach of our systems, the resulting disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. we also collect, use, and retain large amounts of personal information about our clients and their employees that is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients. this information includes bank account numbers, credit card numbers, tax return information, social security numbers, health care information, retirement account information, payroll information, and paychex system passwords. in addition, we also collect and maintain personal information on our employees in the ordinary course of our business. as many of our services are web-based and mobile-application-based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers has been increasing. vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. we have security systems and information technology infrastructure in place designed to detect and protect against unauthorized access to such information. however, there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. third parties, including vendors that provide services for our operations, could also be a source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. if our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, both the company and our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by disruptions or security breaches in the future. such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulatory investigation and penalties, loss of clients' business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations: our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, severe weather including events resulting from climate change, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. our business continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of severe weather, including hurricanes, floods, and snowstorms, and has been successful. however, these past successes are not an indicator of success in the future. if the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. we may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions: as part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. these service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their 8 employees. failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. we may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our peo business: many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the co-employment relationship. as a result, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. although our agreements with the clients provide that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees' conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. in addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the employer under any applicable state or federal laws. we may be adversely impacted by changes in health insurance and workers' compensation rates and underlying claims trends: within our peo business, we maintain health and workers' compensation insurance covering worksite employees. the insurance costs are impacted by claims experience and are a significant portion of our peo direct costs. if we experience a sudden or unexpected increase in claims activity, our costs could increase. in addition, in the event of expiration or cancellation of existing contracts, we may not be able to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms. also, as a co-employer in the peo, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities associated with health care reform, which may result in increased costs. increases in costs not incorporated into service fees timely or fully, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. incorporating cost increases into service fees could also impact our ability to attract and retain clients. our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance: we receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income. we may be adversely impacted by volatility in the financial and economic environment: during periods of weak economic conditions, employment levels tend to decrease and interest rates may become more volatile. these conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. in addition, new business formation may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. the interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. in addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. we historically have not borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet liquidity needs. however, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. if all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: refer to item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on market risk factors, which would could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. we follow an investment strategy of protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. a substantial portion of our portfolios is invested in high credit quality securities with aaa and aa ratings and a-1/p-1 ratings on short-term securities. we invest predominately in municipal bonds including general obligation bonds, pre-refunded bonds that are secured by a u.s. government escrow, and essential services revenue bonds. we limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. we manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three years. during fiscal 2013 , our primary short-term investment vehicles were vrdns and bank demand deposit accounts. we have no exposure to high-risk or illiquid investments such as auction rate securities, sub-prime mortgage securities, asset-backed securities or asset-backed commercial paper, collateralized debt obligations, enhanced cash or cash plus mutual funds, or structured investment vehicles (sivs). we have insignificant exposure to european investments. we have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. during fiscal 2013 , the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 1.0% , compared with 1.1% for fiscal 2012 and 1.3% for fiscal 2011 . when interest rates are falling, the full impact of lower interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. during a falling interest rate environment, the decreases in interest rates decrease earnings from our short-term investments, and over time decrease earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from the available-for-sale-securities, which as of may 31, 2013 had an average duration of 3.1 years, would not reflect decreases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at lower rates. in the next twelve months, slightly less than 15% of our available- 25 for-sale portfolio will mature, and it is currently anticipated that these proceeds will be reinvested at a lower average interest rate of approximately 1.1%. the amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of may 31, 2013 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2013 in millions amortized cost fair value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 274.3 $ 276.2 due after one year through three years 701.2 718.6 due after three years through five years 693.4 709.7 due after five years 1,987.8 1,986.9 total $ 3,656.7 $ 3,691.4 vrdns are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. the federal funds rate remained at a range of zero to 0.25% throughout fiscal years 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 . calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: daily interest rate changes; seasonal variations in investment balances; actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities; the proportion of taxable and tax-exempt investments; changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates. subject to these factors and under normal financial market conditions, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. under normal financial market conditions, the impact to earnings from a 25-basis-point change in short-term interest rates would be in the range of $4.0 million to $4.5 million, after taxes, for a twelve-month period. such a basis point change may or may not be tied to changes in the federal funds rate. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) averaged approximately $4.5 billion for fiscal 2013 . our anticipated allocation is approximately 50% invested in short-term securities and vrdns with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 50% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three and one-half years. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized gain of $34.7 million as of may 31, 2013 , compared with an unrealized gain of $59.5 million as of may 31, 2012 . the decrease was the result of higher market yields experienced near the end of fiscal 2013 . in determining fair value, we utilize the interactive data pricing service. during fiscal 2013 , the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $34.7 million to $64.1 million . during fiscal 2012 , the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $46.4 million to $72.5 million. the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios was approximately 2.7 million as of july 15, 2013 . as of may 31, 2013 and 2012 , we had $3.7 billion and $3.1 billion , respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 1.8% and 2.2% as of may 31, 2013 and may 31, 2012 , respectively. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates such as the vrdns held as of may 31, 2013 and 2012 . assuming a hypothetical decrease in both short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential increase in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of may 31, 2013 , would be in the range of $18.5 million to $19.0 million . conversely, a corresponding increase in interest rates would result in a comparable decrease in fair value. this hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment 26 to the portfolio's recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders' equity. these fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized. credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. we regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. we believe that the investments we held as of may 31, 2013 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. while $579.7 million of our available-for-sale securities had fair values that were below amortized cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that the unrealized loss of $5.7 million was due to changes in interest rates and was not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. substantially all of the securities in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2013 and 2012 held an aa rating or better. we do not currently intend to sell these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believe that it is not more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these investments prior to that time. our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment.risk factors our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results, and from our projections. the risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our business and are important to understanding our business. the risks described below are not the only risks we face. additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect, possibly to a material extent, our business, cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. in addition, you should refer to the description of forward-looking statements at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. our services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies: many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continually change. changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. failure to educate and assist our clients regarding new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse impact on our reputation. failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our clients and our business could be adversely impacted by health care reform: the act was enacted in march 2010 and entails sweeping health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 through 2018. many provisions of the act require the issuance of additional guidance from the u.s. departments of labor and health &amp; human services, the internal revenue service (the irs ), and the states. 8 the complexity of federal and state regulations facing employers has continued to increase, over time, including the enactment of the act. as a service provider, we have a responsibility to our clients to help them understand their increased obligations under such regulations. failure to provide clients with appropriate information or solutions to effectively manage their health care benefits and related costs could have an adverse impact on our reputation and a negative impact on our client base. there is no guarantee that solutions we have developed to help clients navigate health care legislation will be readily accepted by clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our insurance services business. insurance services revenue is at risk for lower commission revenue from underwriters if clients move away from traditional insurance policies utilized in the past or as a result of pressure on commission rates, driven by restrictions on insurers as to use of premiums. refer to the discussion on the next page regarding changes in health insurance and workers' compensation insurance rates and underlying claims trends for discussion of health care reform as it impacts our peo. we may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our products and services: to maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients' requirements. we continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. if our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. there can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. if we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. our business and reputation may be affected by security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure, which could compromise company and personal customer information: we rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to support a variety of business processes. if we experience a problem with the functioning of key systems or a security breach of our systems, the resulting disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. we also collect, use, and retain large amounts of personal information about our clients and their employees that is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients. this information includes bank account numbers, credit card numbers, tax return information, social security numbers, health care information, retirement account information, payroll information, and paychex system passwords. in addition, we also collect and maintain personal information on our employees in the ordinary course of our business. as many of our services are web-based and mobile-application-based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers has been increasing. vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. we have security systems and information technology infrastructure in place designed to detect and protect against unauthorized access to such information. however, there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. third parties, including vendors that provide services for our operations, could also be a source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. if our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, both the company and our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by disruptions or security breaches in the future. such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulatory investigation and penalties, loss of clients' business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations: our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, severe weather including events resulting from climate change, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. our business continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of severe weather, including hurricanes, floods, and snowstorms, and has been successful. however, these past successes are not an indicator of success in the future. if the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. we may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions: as part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. these service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. 9 we may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our peo business: many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the co-employment relationship. as a result, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. although our agreements with clients provide that they will indemnify us for any liability attributable to their own or their employees' conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. in addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the employer under any applicable state or federal laws. we may be adversely impacted by changes in health insurance and workers' compensation rates and underlying claims trends: within our peo business, we maintain health and workers' compensation insurance covering worksite employees. the insurance costs are impacted by claims experience and are a significant portion of our peo costs. if we experience a sudden or unexpected increase in claims activity, our costs could increase. in addition, in the event of expiration or cancellation of existing contracts, we may not be able to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms. also, as a co-employer in the peo, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities associated with health care reform, which may result in increased costs. increases in costs not incorporated into service fees timely or fully, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. incorporating cost increases into service fees could also impact our ability to attract and retain clients. our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance: we receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies could adversely impact this interest income. we may be adversely impacted by volatility in the financial and economic environment: during periods of weak economic conditions, employment levels tend to decrease and interest rates may become more volatile. these conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. in addition, new business formation may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. the interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. in addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. historically, we have rarely borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet liquidity needs. however, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. if all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: refer to item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on market risk factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. we follow an investment strategy of protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. a substantial portion of our portfolios is invested in high credit quality securities with aaa and aa ratings and a-1/p-1 ratings on short-term securities. we invest predominately in municipal bonds including general obligation bonds, pre-refunded bonds that are secured by a u.s. government escrow, and essential services revenue bonds. we limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. we manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. during fiscal 2014 , our primary short-term investment vehicles were vrdns and bank demand deposit accounts. we have no exposure to high-risk or illiquid investments such as auction rate securities, sub-prime mortgage securities, asset-backed securities or asset-backed commercial paper, collateralized debt obligations, enhanced cash or cash plus mutual funds, or structured investment vehicles (sivs). we have insignificant exposure to european investments. we have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. during fiscal 2014 , the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 1.0% , compared with 1.0% for fiscal 2013 and 1.1% for fiscal 2012 . when interest rates are falling, the full impact of lower interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. during a falling interest rate environment, the decreases in interest rates decrease earnings from our short-term investments, and over time decrease earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from the available-for-sale securities, which as of may 31, 2014 had an average duration of 3.0 years, would not reflect decreases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at lower rates. in the next twelve months, approximately 15% of our available-for-sale portfolio will mature, and it is currently anticipated that these proceeds will be reinvested at a lower average interest rate of approximately 1.6% . the amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of may 31, 2014 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. 28 may 31, 2014 in millions amortized cost fair value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 392.0 $ 394.3 due after one year through three years 759.8 776.0 due after three years through five years 764.1 774.3 due after five years 1,441.0 1,446.8 total $ 3,356.9 $ 3,391.4 vrdns are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. the federal funds rate remained at a range of zero to 0.25% throughout fiscal years 2014 , 2013 , and 2012 . calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: daily interest rate changes; seasonal variations in investment balances; actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities; the proportion of taxable and tax-exempt investments; changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates. subject to these factors and under normal financial market conditions, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. under normal financial market conditions, the impact to earnings from a 25-basis-point change in short-term interest rates would be approximately $4.5 million , after taxes, for a twelve-month period. such a basis point change may or may not be tied to changes in the federal funds rate. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) averaged approximately $4.8 billion for fiscal 2014 . our anticipated allocation is approximately 45% invested in short-term securities and vrdns with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 55% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized gain of $34.5 million as of may 31, 2014 , compared with an unrealized gain of $34.7 million as of may 31, 2013 . refer to note f of the notes to consolidated financial statements, contained in item 8 of this form 10-k, for additional disclosures on fair value. during fiscal 2014 , the net unrealized gain/(loss) on our investment portfolios ranged from an unrealized loss of $12.8 million to an unrealized gain of $42.7 million . during fiscal 2013 , the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $34.7 million to $64.1 million . the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios was approximately $26.9 million as of july 16, 2014 . as of may 31, 2014 and 2013 , we had $3.4 billion and $3.7 billion , respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 1.6% and 1.8% as of may 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates such as the vrdns. assuming a hypothetical decrease in both short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential increase in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of may 31, 2014 , would be approximately $20.0 million . conversely, a corresponding increase in interest rates would result in a comparable decrease in fair value. this hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio's recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders' equity. these fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized. 29 credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. we regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. we believe that the investments we held as of may 31, 2014 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. while $395.2 million of our available-for-sale securities had fair values that were below amortized cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that the unrealized loss of $3.0 million was due to changes in interest rates and was not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. substantially all of the securities in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2014 and 2013 held an aa rating or better. we do not currently intend to sell these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believe that it is not more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these investments prior to that time. our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment.risk factors our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results, and from our projections. the risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our business and are important to understanding our business. the risks described below are not the only risks we face. additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect, possibly to a material extent, our business, cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. in addition, you should refer to the description of forward-looking statements at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. our services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies: many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continually change. changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. failure to educate and assist our clients regarding new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse impact on our reputation. failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our clients and our business could be adversely impacted by health care reform: the act was enacted in march 2010 and entails sweeping health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 through 2018. many provisions of the act require the issuance of additional guidance from the u.s. departments of labor and health &amp; human services, the internal revenue service (the irs ), and the states. 7 as a service provider, we have a responsibility to our clients to help them understand their increased obligations under the federal and state regulations facing employers under the act. failure to provide clients with appropriate information or solutions to effectively manage their health care benefits and related costs could have an adverse impact on our reputation and a negative impact on our client base. there is no guarantee that solutions we have developed to help clients navigate health care legislation will continue to be readily accepted by clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our insurance services business. insurance services revenue is at risk for lower commission revenue from underwriters if clients move away from traditional insurance policies utilized in the past or as a result of pressure on commission rates, driven by restrictions on insurers as to use of premiums. refer to the discussion on the next page regarding changes in health insurance and workers' compensation insurance rates and underlying claim trends for discussion of health care reform as it impacts our peo. we may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our products and services: to maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients' requirements. we continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. if our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. there can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. if we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. our business and reputation may be affected by security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure, which could compromise company and personal customer information: we rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to support a variety of business processes. if we experience a problem with the functioning of key systems or a security breach of our systems, the resulting disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. we also collect, use, and retain large amounts of personal information about our clients and their employees that is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients. this information includes bank account numbers, credit card numbers, tax return information, social security numbers, health care information, retirement account information, payroll information, and paychex system passwords. in addition, we also collect and maintain personal information on our employees in the ordinary course of our business. as many of our services are web-based and mobile-application-based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers has been increasing. vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. we have security systems and information technology infrastructure in place designed to detect and protect against unauthorized access to such information. however, there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. third parties, including vendors that provide services for our operations, could also be a source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. if our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, both the company and our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by disruptions or security breaches in the future. such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulatory investigation and penalties, loss of clients' business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations: our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, severe weather including events resulting from climate change, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. our business continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of severe weather, including hurricanes, floods, and snowstorms, and has been successful. however, these past successes are not an indicator of success in the future. if the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. we may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions: as part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. these service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. 8 we may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our peo business: many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the co-employment relationship. as a result, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. although our agreements with clients provide that they will indemnify us for any liability attributable to their own or their employees' conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. in addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the employer under any applicable state or federal laws. we may be adversely impacted by changes in health insurance and workers' compensation rates and underlying claims trends: within our peo business, we maintain health and workers' compensation insurance covering worksite employees. the insurance costs are impacted by claim experience and are a significant portion of our peo costs. if we experience a sudden or unexpected increase in claim activity, our costs could increase. in addition, in the event of expiration or cancellation of existing contracts, we may not be able to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms. also, as a co-employer in the peo, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities associated with health care reform, which may result in increased costs. increases in costs not incorporated into service fees timely or fully could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. incorporating cost increases into service fees could also impact our ability to attract and retain clients. our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance: we receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies could adversely impact interest income. we may be adversely impacted by volatility in the financial and economic environment: during periods of weak economic conditions, employment levels tend to decrease and interest rates may become more volatile. these conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. in addition, new business formation may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. the interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. in addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. historically, we have rarely borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet liquidity needs. however, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. if all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: refer to item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on market risk factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. we follow an investment strategy of protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. a substantial portion of our portfolios is invested in high credit quality securities with aaa and aa ratings and a-1/p-1 ratings on short-term securities. we invest predominately in municipal bonds including general obligation bonds, pre-refunded bonds that are secured by a u.s. government escrow, and essential services revenue bonds. we limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest primarily in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. we manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. during fiscal 2015 , our primary short-term investment vehicles were bank demand deposit accounts and vrdns. we have no exposure to high-risk or illiquid investments. we have insignificant exposure to european investments. we have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. during fiscal 2015 , the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 1.0% , comparable the average interest rate earned for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 . when interest rates are rising, the full impact of higher interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. during a rising interest rate environment, earnings increase from our short-term investments, and over time increase earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from the available-for-sale securities, which as of may 31, 2015 had an average duration of 3.2 years, would not reflect increases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at higher rates. the amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of may 31, 2015 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2015 in millions amortized cost fair value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 345.8 $ 347.8 due after one year through three years 726.3 734.3 due after three years through five years 800.9 802.0 due after five years 1,709.0 1,711.5 total $ 3,582.0 $ 3,595.6 vrdns are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. the federal funds rate remained at a range of zero to 0.25% throughout fiscal years 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: daily interest rate changes; seasonal variations in investment balances; actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities; the proportion of taxable and tax-exempt investments; changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and 27 financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates. subject to these factors and under normal financial market conditions, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. under normal financial market conditions, the impact to earnings from a 25-basis-point change in short-term interest rates would be approximately $3.5 million to $4.0 million , after taxes, for a twelve-month period. such a basis point change may or may not be tied to changes in the federal funds rate. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) averaged approximately $5.1 billion for fiscal 2015 . our anticipated allocation is approximately 45% invested in short-term securities and vrdns with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 55% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized gain of $13.6 million as of may 31, 2015 , compared with an unrealized gain of $34.5 million as of may 31, 2014 . refer to note f of the notes to consolidated financial statements, contained in item 8 of this form 10-k, for additional disclosures on fair value measurements. during fiscal 2015 , the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $9.5 million to $55.9 million . during fiscal 2014 , the net unrealized gain/(loss) on our investment portfolios ranged from an unrealized loss of $12.8 million to an unrealized gain of $42.7 million . the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios was approximately $20.9 million as of july 16, 2015 . as of may 31, 2015 and 2014 , we had $3.6 billion and $3.4 billion , respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 1.6% as of may 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates such as the vrdns. assuming a hypothetical increase in longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of may 31, 2015 , would be in the range of $20.0 million to $25.0 million . conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in fair value. this hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio's recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders' equity. these fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized. credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. we regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. we believe that the investments we held as of may 31, 2015 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. while $923.0 million of our available-for-sale securities had fair values that were below amortized cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that the unrealized losses of $7.5 million was due to changes in interest rates and was not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. a substantial portion of these securities in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2015 and 2014 held an aa rating or better. we do not intend to sell these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believe that it is not more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these investments prior to that time. our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. 28quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. if all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we have made and may continue to make acquisitions that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities, and difficulties in integrating operations. successful integration involves many challenges, including the difficulty of developing and marketing new products and services, our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the loss of key employees of an acquired business. the integration and conversion of our acquired operations or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating these businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process. in addition, an acquisition could adversely impact cash flows and/or operating results, and dilute stockholder interests, for many reasons, including charges to our income to reflect the impairment of acquired intangible assets including goodwill, interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred in connection with an acquisition, and any issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition or new business venture that dilutes or lessens the rights of our current stockholders. if the integration of any or all of our acquisitions or future acquisitions is not successful, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. 11 table of contents certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that may constrain the operation of our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition . the note purchase and guarantee agreement that we entered into in january 2019 in connection with our acquisition of oasis, contains restrictive covenants which may restrict our flexibility to operate our business. these covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and indebtedness, substantial changes in the general nature of our business and our subsidiaries (taken as a whole), certain merger transactions, certain sales of assets and other matters, all subject to certain exceptions. the financial covenants, which are based on quarterly financial tests, require us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 3.50:1.00 and a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.00:1.00. in addition, we will not permit certain of our indebtedness to exceed 20% of our consolidated stockholders equity. if we do not comply with these covenants, it could result in material and adverse effects on our operating results and our financial condition. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified people, which could impact the quality of our services and customer satisfaction. our success, growth, and financial results depend in part on our continuing ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified people at all levels, including management, technical, compliance, and sales personnel. competition for these individuals can be intense, and we may not be able to retain our key people, or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly-qualified individuals in the future, which could harm our future success. failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to do so effectively in all cases. our intellectual property could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyberattack or other wrongful conduct by employees or third parties. to the extent that our intellectual property is not protected effectively by trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other means, other parties with knowledge of our intellectual property, including former employees, may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own and others advantage. competitors may also misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights or duplicate our technology and products. any significant impairment or misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information could harm our business and our brand, and may adversely affect our ability to compete. in the event we receive negative publicity, our reputation and the value of our brand could be harmed and clients may not use our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. negative publicity relating to events or activities attributed to us, our corporate employees, or others associated with us, whether or not justified, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. if we are unable to maintain quality hcm solutions and peo services, our reputation with our clients may be harmed and the value of our brand may diminish. in addition, if our brand is negatively impacted, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, including challenges retaining clients or attracting new clients and recruiting talent and retaining employees. we are involved in litigation from time to time arising from the operation of our business and, as such, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees, or other costs. we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees, or other third parties for various actions. from time to time, we are involved in litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract, tortious conduct, and employment and labor law matters. the damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings could be substantial. although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk : refer to item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on market risk factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. item 1b. unr esolved staff comments none. 12 table of contents it em 2. properties we owned and leased the following properties as of may 31, 2019: square feet owned facilities: rochester, new york 1,012,000 other u.s. locations 65,000 international locations 13,000 total owned facilities 1,090,000 leased facilities: rochester, new york 111,000 other u.s. locations 2,106,000 international locations 88,000 total leased facilities 2,305,000 our facilities in rochester, new york house various distribution, processing, and technology functions, certain ancillary functions, a telemarketing unit, and other back-office functions. facilities outside of rochester, new york are in various locations throughout the u.s. and house our branch and sales offices, regional service centers, multi-product service centers, and data processing centers. these locations are concentrated in metropolitan areas. our international locations primarily house our european branches and sales locations, and a location in india primarily houses information technology staffing. we believe that adequate, suitable lease space will continue to be available to meet our needs. ite m 3. legal proceedings we are subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of our business. these include disputes or potential disputes related to breach of contract, tort, breach of fiduciary duty, employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters. our management currently believes that resolution of outstanding legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on the company financial position and the results of operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded. it em 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. p art ii it em 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities our common stock trades on the nasdaq global select market under the symbol payx . dividends have historically been paid on our common stock in august, november, february, and may. the level and continuation of future dividends are dependent on our future earnings and cash flows, and are subject to the discretion of our board of directors (the board ). as of june 30, 2019, there were 10,692 holders of record of our common stock, which includes registered holders and participants in the paychex, inc. dividend reinvestment and stock purc hase plan. there were also 4,350 participants in the paychex, inc. qualified employee stock purchase plan and 4,388 participants in the paychex, inc. employee stock ownership plan. 13 table of contents during fiscal 2019 and the fiscal year ended may 31, 2018 ( fiscal 2018 ) we maintained a common stock repurchase program authorized by the board in july 2016 which expired on may 31, 2019. this program allowed us to repurchase up to $350.0 million of our common stock. shares repurchased under this program during fiscal 2019 were as follows (in millions): in millions total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total dollars approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program first quarter 0.5 $ 71.80 $ 32.8 $ 67.7 second quarter $ $ 67.7 third quarter $ $ 67.7 march 1 to march 31, 2019 $ $ 67.7 april 1 to april 30, 2019 $ $ 67.7 may 1 to may 31, 2019 0.2 $ 83.76 24.1 $ fiscal year 0.7 $ 76.42 $ 56.9 all shares of stock repurchased during fiscal 2019 were retired. in may 2019, our board authorized a program which allows us to repurchase up to $400.0 million of our common stock which expires on may 31, 20 22 . the following graph shows a five-year comparison of the total cumulative returns of investing $100 on may 31, 2014, in paychex common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index, and a peer group index. all comparisons of stock price performance shown assume reinvestment of dividends. we are a participant in the s&amp;p 500 index, a market group of companies with a larger than average market capitalization. our peer group is a group of companies with comparable revenue and net income, who are in a comparable industry, or who are direct competitors of paychex (as detailed below). may 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 paychex $100.00 $124.25 $141.11 $159.07 $180.58 $243.87 s&amp;p 500 $100.00 $111.81 $113.72 $133.59 $152.81 $158.59 peer group $100.00 $128.44 $131.81 $154.93 $200.03 $227.60 there can be no assurance that our stock performance will continue into the future with the same or similar trends depicted in the graph above. we neither make nor endorse any predictions as to future stock performance. 14 table of contents our peer group for fiscal 2019 is comprised of the following companies: alliance data systems corporation h&amp;r block, inc. automatic data processing, inc. (direct competitor) intuit inc. broadridge financial solutions, inc. moody corporation dst system, inc. robert half international inc. the dun &amp; bradstreet corporation td ameritrade holding corporation equifax, inc. total systems services, inc. fiserv, inc. the western union company global payments inc. 15 table of contents ite m 6. selected financial data in millions, except per share amounts year ended may 31, 2019 (4) 2018 (1),(2),(3),(4) 2017 (1),(4) 2016 (5),(6) 2015 (6) service revenue $ 3,691.9 $ 3,314.2 $ 3,102.4 $ 2,905.8 $ 2,697.5 interest on funds held for clients 80.6 63.5 50.6 46.1 42.1 total revenue $ 3,772.5 $ 3,377.7 $ 3,153.0 $ 2,951.9 $ 2,739.6 operating income $ 1,371.3 $ 1,291.5 $ 1,253.9 $ 1,146.6 $ 1,053.6 net income $ 1,034.4 $ 994.1 $ 826.3 $ 756.8 $ 674.9 basic earnings per share $ 2.88 $ 2.77 $ 2.30 $ 2.10 $ 1.86 diluted earnings per share $ 2.86 $ 2.75 $ 2.28 $ 2.09 $ 1.85 cash dividends per common share $ 2.30 $ 2.06 $ 1.84 $ 1.68 $ 1.52 purchases of property and equipment $ 123.8 $ 154.0 $ 94.3 $ 97.7 $ 102.8 cash, restricted cash, and total corporate investments $ 779.9 $ 719.7 $ 777.4 $ 793.2 $ 936.4 total assets $ 8,676.0 $ 7,915.4 $ 7,280.8 $ 6,440.8 $ 6,467.5 total debt $ 796.4 $ $ $ $ stockholders equity $ 2,619.5 $ 2,356.8 $ 2,227.2 $ 1,911.7 $ 1,785.5 return on stockholders equity 42 % 44 % 39 % 40 % 36 % (1) in fiscal 2019, we adopted accounting standards codification ( asc ) topic 606, revenue from contracts with customers ( asc topic 606 ). as a result, amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of the new standard. the adoption of asc topic 606 increased diluted earnings per share by $0.17 and $0.02 per diluted share for fiscal 2018 and for the fiscal year ended may 31, 2017 ( fiscal 2017 ), respectively. refer to item 8, financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k, for additional discussion of the impact of adopting the new standard. (2) in fiscal 2018, the enactment of the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) significantly impacted our net income, basic and diluted earnings per share, and return on stockholders equity . refer to item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, of this form 10-k for additional discussion of the impact of the tax act. (3) in fiscal 2018, an additional expense and corresponding tax benefit was recognized as a result of the termination of certain license agreements. refer to item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , and item 8, financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k, for additional discussion of the impact of the termination of certain license agreements. (4) in fiscal 2017, we early-adopted new accounting guidance related to employee stock-based compensation payments. as a result, a discrete tax benefit was recognized upon exercise or lapse of stock-based awards. this discrete tax benefit increased diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.02 per diluted share, $0.04 per diluted share, and $0.05 per diluted share for fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, and fiscal 2017, respectively. (5) in the fiscal year ended may 31, 2016 ( fiscal 2016 ), a net tax benefit was recorded for income derived in prior tax years from customer-facing software we produced. this net tax benefit increased diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.06 per share. (6) during fiscal 2016, we adopted new accounting guidance related to the presentation of deferred taxes within the consolidated balance sheets. as a result, a reclassification of prior year deferred tax amounts was made to conform to the may 31, 2016 p resentation of deferred taxes within the consolidated balance sheets. in the table above, a similar reclassification was made, which impacted total assets. 16 table of contents ite m 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reviews the operating results of paychex, inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries ( paychex, the company, we, our, or us ) for each of the three fiscal years ended may 31, 2019 ( fiscal 2019 or the fiscal year ), may 31, 2018 ( fiscal 2018 ), and may 31, 2017 ( fiscal 2017 ), and our financial condition as of may 31, 2019 . this review should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and the related notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k ( form 10-k ) and the risk factors discussed in item 1a of this form 10-k. forward-looking statements in this review are qualified by the cautionary statement under the heading cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements pursuant to the united states private securities litigation reform act of 1995 contained at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. overview we are a leading provider of integrated human capital management ( hcm ) solutions for payroll, benefits, human resource ( hr ), and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses. we offer a comprehensive portfolio of hcm services and products that allow our clients to meet their diverse payroll and hr needs. we support small-business companies through our core payroll, utilizing our proprietary, robust, software-as-a-service ( saas ) paychex flex platform, and our surepayroll saas-based products. mid-market companies typically have more complex payroll and benefits needs, and are serviced through our paychex flex enterprise solution set, which offers an integrated suite of hcm solutions through the paychex flex platform, or through our legacy platform. our saas solution through paychex flex enterprise integrates payroll processing with hr management, employee benefits administration, time and labor management, applicant tracking, onboarding solutions, and performance and learning management . our portfolio of hcm and employee benefit-related services are as follows: management solutions : payroll processing services; payroll tax administration services; employee payment services; regulatory compliance services (new-hire reporting and ga rnishment processing); hr solutions administrative services organization ( aso ); retirement services administration; hr administration services, including time and attendance, benefit enrollment, recruiting, and onboarding; other hr services and products; and business services. our wholly owned subsidiary, paychex advance llc ( paychex advance ), provides a portfolio of services to the temporary staffing industry, including payroll funding (via the purchase of accounts receivable) and outsourcing services, which includes payroll processing, invoicing, and tax preparation. professional employer organization ( peo ) and insurance services: peo services provided by our licensed subsidiaries, paychex business solutions, llc, hr outsourcing holdings, inc. ( hroi ), and oasis outsourcing group holdings, l.p. ( oasis ); and insurance services provided by our licensed insurance agency, paychex insurance agency, inc. our mission is to be the leading provider of payroll, benefits, hr, and insurance services for small and mid-sized companies by being an essential partner with america's businesses. we believe success in this mission will lead to strong long-term financial performance. our strategy focuses on flexible, convenient service; industry-leading, integrated technology; solid sales execution; providing a comprehensive suite of value-added hcm services; continued service penetration; and engaging in strategic acquisitions. we continue to focus on driving growth in the number of clients, revenue per client, and revenue and profits, while providing industry-leading service and technology solutions to our clients and their employees. we maintain industry-leading margins by managing our personnel costs and expenses while continuing to invest in our business, particularly in leading-edge technology. we believe these investments are critical to our success. looking to the future, we believe that investing in our products, people, and service capabilities will position us to capitalize on opportunities for long-term growth. 17 table of contents our financial results for fiscal 2019 reflect another year of continued growth across our major hcm product lines. peo and insurance services revenue continued to experience strong growth of 46 % for fiscal 2019 as compared with fiscal 2018. excluding the acquisition of oasis, peo and insurance services revenue increased 19% for fiscal 2019. the impact of the acquisition of hroi on peo and insurance services revenue growth for fiscal 2019 was approximately 4%. the remaining increases were driven by growth in clients and client worksite employees across our combined existing peo business. manageme nt solutions revenue increased 4 % for fiscal 2019 as compared with fiscal 2018, primarily driven by growth in our client base across many of our services, growth in revenue per check, which improved as a result of price increases, net of discounts , and increased revenue per client . as of may 31, 2019 , including the oasis acquisition, we served approximately 670,000 payroll and peo clients . as of may 31, 2018 , we served over 650,000 payroll and peo clients. client retention was over 82 % of our beginning client base for the fiscal year, in line with our historic best retention rate. effective december 20, 2018, the company acquired oasis. upon closing, oasis became a wholly owned subsidiary of the company. oasis is an industry leader in providing hr outsourcing services. the purchase price was $99 2.2 million, net of $262.3 million in cash acquired, including $132.1 million of restricted cash. the acquisition was financed through a combination of cash on hand and the issuance of long-term private placement debt totaling $800.0 million. interest rates available on high-quality financial instruments have gradually increased . our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios earn ed an average rate of return of 1.9% for fiscal 2019 , compared to 1.5 % for fiscal 2018 and 1.2 % for fiscal 2017 . the united states ( u.s. ) federal reserve raised the federal funds rate by a total of 75 basis points during fiscal 2019 to a range of 2.25% to 2.50% as of may 31, 2019 . the federal funds rate was in the range of 1.50% to 1.75% as of may 31, 2018 . highlights of our financial results for fiscal 2019 , compared to fiscal 2018 , are as follows: total revenue increased 12 % to $ 3.8 billion. total service revenue increased 11 % to $ 3.7 billion. o management solutions revenue increased 4 % to $ 2.9 billion. o peo and insurance services revenue increased 46 % to $ 814.2 million. excluding the acquisition of oasis, peo and insurance services revenue increased 19 % . the impact of the acquisition of hroi on peo and insurance services revenue growth was approximately 4%. interest on funds held for clients increased 27 % to $ 80.6 million. operating income increased 6 % to $ 1.4 billion. adjusted operating income (1) increased 4 % to $ 1.4 billion. net income increased 4 % to $ 1.0 billion. adjusted net income (1) increased 11 % to $ 1.0 billion. diluted earnings per share increased 4 % to $ 2.86 per share. adjusted diluted earnings per share (1) increased 11 % to $ 2.84 per share. dividends of $826.8 million were paid to stockholders, representing 80% of net income. (1) adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share are not u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) measures. please refer to the non-gaap financial measures section of this item 7 for a discussion of these non-gaap measures and a reconciliation to the most comparable gaap measures of operating income, net income, and diluted earnings per share. business outlook our payroll and peo client base, including all acquisitions, was approximately 670,000 clients as of may 31, 2019 . our payroll and peo client base, including all acquisitions, exceeded 650,000 clients as of may 31, 2018, and was approximately 605,000 clients as of may 31, 2017. 18 table of contents while our hr product offerings provide services to employers and employees beyond payroll, they effectively leverage payroll processing data. our hr services are included as part of the integrated hcm solution within paychex flex or provided through our prism hr peo platform. the following table illustrates the growth in selected hr product offerings: balance as of growth rates for fiscal year may 31, 2019 2019 2018 2017 management solutions paychex hr solutions client worksite employees 1,086,000 9 % 9 % 8 % paychex hr solutions clients 37,000 7 % 8 % 8 % retirement services plans 87,000 6 % 6 % 5 % peo and insurance services peo client worksite employees (1) 405,000 150 % 50 % 9 % peo clients (1) 15,000 126 % 39 % 3 % health and benefits services applicants 189,000 7 % 9 % 8 % (1) oasis is included in the total number of worksite employees and clients for fiscal 2019. hroi is included in the total number of worksite employees and clients for both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. concentrated effort remains on the continued enhancements of paychex flex, our robust cloud-based hcm platform, which allows direct client access to payroll, hr, and benefits information in a streamlined and integrated approach to workplace management. in fiscal 2019, we continued to focus on enhancing the value to clients of our paychex flex platform. new offerings and enhancements to our paychex flex platform made in fiscal 2019 included: paychex learning, an accessible, low-cost and seamlessly integrated web-based learning management system for providing professional training courses to the workforce; paychex flex assistant, a chatbot programmed to answer commonly asked hr-related questions ; t ablet-enabled facial recognition for time and attendance ; retirement-focused product enhancements to both the participant dashboard and advisor portal, designed to simplify the process of enrolling and managing a 401(k) plan; new synchronization functionality between paychex general ledger service and quickbooks online, which enhances efficiency and productivity for businesses, as well as the accountants who serve them; and the addition of performance management, workflow approvals, real-time analytics , and a configurable events calendar to the paychex flex platform. we continue to strengthen our position as an expert in our industry by serving as a source of education and information to clients, businesses of all sizes, and other interested parties. we provide free webinars, white papers, and other information on our website to aid existing and prospective clients with the impact of regulatory changes. the paychex insurance agency, inc. website, www.paychex.com/group-health-insurance , helps small-business owners navigate the area of insurance coverage. both this website and www.paychex.com/worx have sections dedicated to the topic of health care reform. financial position and liquidity our financial position as of may 31, 2019 remained strong with cash, restricted cash, and total corporate investments of $ 779.9 million. total long-term borrowings, net of debt issuance costs, related to our acquisition of oasis totaled $796.4 million as of may 31, 2019 . our investment strategy continues to focus on protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. we invest predominately in municipal bonds including general obligation bonds; pre-refunded bonds, which are secured by a u.s. government escrow; and essential services revenue bonds along with u.s. government agency and treasury securities and corporate bonds. during fiscal 2019 , our primary short-term investment vehicles were government agency discount notes, variable rate demand notes ( vrdns ) and bank demand deposit accounts. a majority of our portfolio is invested in high credit quality securities with ratings of aa or higher, and a-1/p-1 ratings on short-term securities. we limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair values are less sensitive to interest rate changes. we believe that our investments as of may 31, 2019 that were in an unrealized loss position were not other-than-temporarily impaired, nor has any event occurred subsequent to that date that would indicate any other-than-temporary impairment. 19 table of contents our primary source of cash is generated by our ongoing operations. cash flows from operations were $ 1.3 billion for fiscal 2019. historically, we have funded our operations, capital purchases, business acquisitions, share repurchases, and dividend payments from our operating activities. however, we funded our most recent acquisition of oasis through a combination of cash and the issuance of long-term private placement debt of $800.0 million. our positive operating cash flows for fiscal 2019 allowed us to support our business and to pay substantial dividends to our stockholders. in may 2019, our board of directors (the board ) increased our quarterly dividend by 11% to $0.62 per share from $0.56 per share. dividends paid to stockholders were 80% of net income for fiscal 2019 . it is anticipated that cash, restricted cash, and total corporate investments as of may 31, 2019 , along with projected operating cash flows and available short-term financing, will support our normal business operations, capital purchases, share repurchases, and dividend payments for the foreseeable future. for further analysis of our results of operations for fiscal years 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , and our financial position as of may 31, 2019 , refer to the tables and analysis in the results of operations and liquidity and capital resources sections of this item 7 and the discussion in the critical accounting policies section of this item 7. results of operations summary of results of operations for fiscal years: 2018 2017 in millions, except per share amounts 2019 change as adjusted (1) change as adjusted (1) revenue: management solutions $ 2,877.7 4 % $ 2,758.4 3 % $ 2,680.7 peo and insurance services 814.2 46 % 555.8 32 % 421.7 total service revenue 3,691.9 11 % 3,314.2 7 % 3,102.4 interest on funds held for clients 80.6 27 % 63.5 26 % 50.6 total revenue 3,772.5 12 % 3,377.7 7 % 3,153.0 combined operating and sg&amp;a expenses 2,401.2 15 % 2,086.2 10 % 1,899.1 operating income 1,371.3 6 % 1,291.5 3 % 1,253.9 interest (expense)/income, net (3.3) n/m 8.6 n/m 5.2 income before income taxes 1,368.0 5 % 1,300.1 3 % 1,259.1 income taxes 333.6 9 % 306.0 (29) % 432.8 effective income tax rate 24.4 % 23.5 % 34.4 % net income $ 1,034.4 4 % $ 994.1 20 % $ 826.3 diluted earnings per share $ 2.86 4 % $ 2.75 21 % $ 2.28 (1) amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of accounting standards codification ( asc ) topic 606, revenue from contracts with customers ( asc topic 606 ) . n/m not meaningful 20 table of contents we invest in highly liquid, investment-grade fixed income securities and do not utilize derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk. as of may 31, 2019, we had no exposure to high-risk or illiquid investments. details regarding our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios are as follows: year ended may 31, $ in millions 2019 2018 2017 average investment balances: funds held for clients $ 3,969.7 $ 4,040.8 $ 4,066.3 corporate investments 848.4 915.1 906.7 total $ 4,818.1 $ 4,955.9 $ 4,973.0 average interest rates earned (exclusive of net realized gains): funds held for clients 2.0 % 1.6 % 1.2 % corporate investments 1.6 % 1.3 % 1.1 % combined funds held for clients and corporate investments 1.9 % 1.5 % 1.2 % total net realized gains $ $ 0.1 $ 0.1 $ in millions as of may 31, 2019 2018 2017 net unrealized gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities (1) $ 19.7 $ (38.3) $ 32.0 federal funds rate (2) 2.50 % 1.75 % 1.00 % total fair value of available-for-sale securities $ 3,620.8 $ 3,104.8 $ 4,613.2 weighted-average duration of available-for-sale securities in years (3) 2.9 3.1 3.2 weighted-average yield-to-maturity of available-for-sale securities (3) 2.1 % 1.9 % 1.7 % (1) the net unrealized gain on ou r investment portfolios was approximately $ 31.6 million as of july 17, 2019 . (2) the federal funds rate was in the range of 2.25% to 2.50% as of may 31, 2019 , in the range of 1.50% to 1.75% as of may 31, 2018 , and in the range of 0.75% to 1.00% as of may 31, 2017 . (3) t hese items exclude the impact of vrdns, as they are tied to short-term interest rates. management solutions revenue: management solutions revenue was $ 2.9 billion for fiscal 2019 and $ 2.8 billion for fiscal 2018 , reflecting growth of 4 % and 3 %, respectively, compared to each of the prior fiscal year periods. both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 benefited from growth in our client base across many of our services and growth in revenue per client, which improved as a result of price increases, net of discounts, and increased product penetration. paychex hr solutions revenue growth for both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 was driven by strong growth in client base and in client worksite employees. r etirement services revenue growth for both fiscal 2019 and 2018 benefited from an increase in the number of plans served, along with an increase in revenue earned on the asset value of participants 401(k) funds. the impact of the acquisition of lessor group ( lessor ) on management solutions revenue growth for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 was insignificant. payroll revenue represented approximately 64% and 66% of management solutions revenue for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. management solutions key statistics are as follows: $ in billions as of may 31, 2019 change 2018 change 2017 paychex hr solutions client worksite employees 1,086,000 9 % 995,000 9 % 912,000 paychex hr solutions clients 37,000 7 % 35,000 8 % 32,000 retirement services plans 87,000 6 % 82,000 6 % 78,000 asset value of retirement services participants funds $ 31.0 1 % $ 30.6 12 % $ 27.4 peo and insurance services revenue: peo and insurance services revenue was $ 814.2 million for fiscal 2019 and $ 555.8 million for fiscal 2018 , reflecting growth of 46 % and 32 %, respectively, compared to each of the prior fiscal year periods. excluding the impact of oasis, peo and insurance services revenue increased 19 % in fiscal 2019 when compared to fiscal 2018. peo and insurance services revenue growth for fiscal 2019, excluding oasis, w as driven by gr owth in clients and client worksite employees across our combined existing peo business. demand for our existing peo services, along with growth within our client base, resulted in double-digit growth in the number of client worksite employees served. the impact of the acquisition of hroi on peo and insurance services revenue growth for fiscal 2019 was approximately 4%. for fiscal 2018, peo and insurance services revenue growth was also primarily driven by increases in clients and client worksite employees across our combined 21 table of contents existing peo business. for fiscal 2018, hroi contributed approximat ely 18% to the growth in peo and insurance services revenue. peo revenue represented approximately 77% and 67% of peo and insurance services revenue for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. insurance ervices revenue growth for both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 benefited from an increase in the number o f health and benefit clients and applicants across our payroll client base. for fiscal 2019, revenue growth was impacted by softness in the workers compensation market as state insurance fund rates declined . insurance services revenue represented approximately 23% and 33% of peo and insurance services revenue for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. peo and insurance services key statistics are as follows: as of may 31, 2019 change 2018 change 2017 peo client worksite employees (1) 405,000 150 % 162,000 50 % 109,000 peo clients (1) 15,000 126 % 6,000 39 % 5,000 health and benefits services applicants 189,000 7 % 177,000 9 % 162,000 (1) oasis is included in the total number of worksite employees and clients for fiscal 2019. hroi is included in the total number of worksite employees and clients for both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. total service revenue: total service revenue increased 11 % and 7 % for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 , respectively, attributable to the factors previously discussed. the acquisitions of oasis, hroi, and lessor contributed approximately 6% to the growth in total service revenue for fiscal 2019 as compared with fiscal 2018. the acquisitions of hroi and lessor contributed less than 3% to the growth in total service revenue for fiscal 2018 as compared with fiscal 2017. as of may 31, 2019, including the oasis and lessor acquisition , we served approximately 670,000 payroll and peo clients. our total payroll and peo client base exceeded 650,000, including the lessor acquisition, for fiscal 2018 and was approximately 605,000 for fiscal 2017. client retention was over 82% for fiscal 2019, in line with our historic best retention rate . client retention was approximately 81% of the beginning client base for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017. interest on funds held for clients: interest on funds held for clients increased 27 % for fiscal 2019 and 26 % for fiscal 2018 to $ 80.6 million and $ 63.5 million, respectively. for both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 , the increases were primarily due to higher average interest rates earned. average investment balances for funds held for clients decreased approximately 2 % and 1% for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 , respectively, primarily driven by the impact of lower client withholdings as a result of the tax cut and jobs act o f 2017 (the tax act ), and changes in client base mix, partially offset by the impact of wage inflation. refer to the market risk factors section contained in item 7a of this form 10-k for more information on changing interest rates. combined operating and sg&amp;a expenses: the following table summarizes total combined operating and sg&amp;a expenses for fiscal years: 2018 2017 in millions 2019 change (1) as adjusted (2) change (1) as adjusted (2) compensation-related expenses $ 1,396.8 13 % $ 1,235.2 5 % $ 1,175.9 depreciation and amortization 181.5 32 % 138.0 9 % 126.9 peo insurance costs 286.7 40 % 205.2 44 % 142.2 other expenses 536.2 6 % 507.8 12 % 454.1 total expenses $ 2,401.2 15 % $ 2,086.2 10 % $ 1,899.1 (1) calculated using actual amounts (2) amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of asc topic 606. total expenses increased 15 % for fiscal 2019 and 10 % for fiscal 2018 . the acquisitions of oasis, hroi, and lessor, contributed 10% and 5% to the growth in total expenses for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. 22 table of contents compensation-related expenses increased 13% for fiscal 2019 and 5% for fiscal 2018. the acquisitions of oasis, hroi and lessor contributed 6% and 1% to the growth in compensation-related expenses for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. for both fiscal 2019 and 2018, the increases in compensation-related expenses were driven by increased headcount due to incremental investments in sales force, technology resources, and operations to support the growth in business and increased performance-based pay. in addition, the increase in compensation-related expenses for fiscal 2018 was impacted by a one-time bonus paid to non-management employees. as of may 31, 2019 , we had approximately 15,600 employees, including oasis, compared with 14,300 employees as of may 31, 2018 . depreciation expense is primarily related to buildings, furniture and fixtures, data processing equipment, and both purchased and internally developed software. amortization of intangible assets is primarily related to client list acquisitions, including intangible assets recorded for the oasis acquisition, which are amortized using either straight-line or accelerated methods. the growth in depreciation and amortization for fiscal 2019 was primarily driven by an increase in intangible assets related to the acquisitions of oasis and lessor. the increase in depreciation and amortization for fiscal 2018 was primarily driven by an increase in internally developed software that was placed in service over the prior two years as well as the amortization of customer lists and other intangibles related to the acquisitions of hroi and lessor. peo insurance costs include workers compensation and minimum premium health insurance benefit plans and self-insured dental and vision plans where we retain risk. growth in our combined peo business, including the acquisitions of oasis and hroi, contributed to the growth in peo insurance costs for both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. other expenses include items such as non-capital equipment, delivery, forms and supplies, communications, travel and entertainment, professional services, and other costs incurred to support our business. continued investment in product development, supporting technology, and the acquisitions of oasis and hroi impacted other expense growth for both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. for fiscal 2018, other expenses also reflect a one-time expense of $32.6 million related to the termination of certain license agreements. operating income: operating income increased 6 % to $ 1.4 billion for fiscal 2019 and 3% to $ 1.3 billion for fiscal 2018. the fluctuations in operating income were attributable to the factors previously discussed. operating income, as a percent of total revenue, was 36.3% , 38.2% , and 39.8% for the fiscal years 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. adjusted operating income increased 4 % to $ 1.4 billion for fiscal 2019 and 6% to $1.3 billion for fiscal 2018. see th e non-gaap financial measures section of this item 7 for further discussion of this non-gaap measure. interest (expense)/income, net: interest (expense)/income, net, primarily represents interest expense incurred on our debt instruments, netted against earnings from our cash and cash equivalents and corporate investments in available-for-sale securities. investment income does not include interest on funds held for clients, which is included in total revenue. we recognized $ 3.3 million of net interest expense for fiscal 2019 and $ 8.6 million of net investment income for fiscal 2018. interest expense, net in fiscal 2019 included $13.7 million of interest expense related to financing used to partially fund the acquisition of oasis. in addition, average investment balances decreased in fiscal 2019 as corporate investments were liquidated to partially fund the oasis acquisition. this decrease was partially offset by higher average interest rates earned. investment income, net increased from $5.2 million for fiscal 2017 to $8.6 million for fiscal 2018. this increase was primarily due to higher average interest rates earned and an increase in average investment balances, which was the result of higher net income partially offset by share repurchases, business acquisitions, and an increase in the rate for quarterly dividend payments. income taxes: our effective income tax rate was 24.4 % for fiscal 2019 , 23.5 % for fiscal 2018 , and was 34.4 % for fiscal 2017 . the effective income tax rates for both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 benefited from the enactment of the tax act. in fiscal 2018, as a result of the tax act , we recorded a non-re curring net tax benefit for the revaluation of our net deferred tax liabilities . this amount impacted diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.23 per diluted share for fiscal 2018. in addition, as it relates to the tax act, our effective income tax rate for both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 benefited from a reduced statutory tax rate applied to taxable income. the effective income tax rates in all periods were impacted by recognition of net discrete tax benefits related to employee stock-based compensation payments. additional discrete tax items recognized during each respective period are insignificant. refer to note k of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for additional disclosures on income taxes. 23 table of contents net income and diluted earnings per share: net income increased 4 % to $ 1.0 billion for fiscal 2019 and 20 % to $ 994.1 million for fiscal 2018 . diluted earnings per share increased 4 % to $ 2.86 per diluted share for fiscal 2019 and 21 % to $ 2.75 per diluted share for fiscal 2018 . these fluctuations were attributable to the factors previously discussed. adjusted net income increased 11 % to $ 1.0 billion for fiscal 2019 and increased 14 % to $ 922.4 million for fiscal 2018 . adjusted diluted earnings per share was $ 2.84 per diluted share for fiscal 2019 and $ 2.55 per diluted share for fiscal 2018 , reflecting increases of 11 % and 14 %, respectively . refer to the non-gaap financial measures section that follows for a discussion of these non-gaap measures. non-gaap financial measures: a djusted operating income, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share are summarized as follows: $ in millions 2018 2017 2019 change as adjusted (1) change as adjusted (1) operating income $ 1,371.3 6 % $ 1,291.5 3 % $ 1,253.9 non-gaap adjustments: termination of license agreements (2) 32.6 total non-gaap adjustments 32.6 adjusted operating income $ 1,371.3 4 % $ 1,324.1 6 % $ 1,253.9 net income $ 1,034.4 4 % $ 994.1 20 % $ 826.3 non-gaap adjustments: excess tax benefit related to employee stock-based compensation payments (3) (8.3) (12.9) (18.3) revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities (4) 1.7 (83.5) termination of license agreements (2) 24.7 total non-gaap adjustments (6.6) (71.7) (18.3) adjusted net income $ 1,027.8 11 % $ 922.4 14 % $ 808.0 diluted earnings per share $ 2.86 4 % $ 2.75 21 % $ 2.28 non-gaap adjustments: excess tax benefit related to employee stock-based compensation payments (3) (0.02) (0.04) (0.05) revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities (4) (0.23) termination of license agreements (2) 0.07 total non-gaap adjustments (0.02) (0.20) (0.05) adjusted diluted earnings per share $ 2.84 11 % $ 2.55 14 % $ 2.23 (1) amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of asc topic 606. (2) additional expense and corresponding tax benefit recognized as a result of the termination of certain license agreements. this event is not expected to recur. (3) net tax windfall or shortfall benefits related to employee stock-based compensation payments recognized in income taxes. this item is subject to volatility and will vary based on employee decisions on exercising employee stock options and fluctuations in our stock price, neither of which is within the control of management. (4) non-recurring tax benefits recognized as a result of the tax act related to the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities and the one-time tax charge as a result of updated guidance on internal revenue code section 162(m). in addition to reporting operating income, net income, and diluted earnings per share, which are u.s. gaap measures, we present adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which are non-gaap measures. we believe adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share are appropriate additional measures, as they are indicators of our core business operations performance period over period. adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share are not calculated through the application of u.s. gaap and are not required forms of disclosure by the sec. as such, they should not be considered as a substitute for the u.s. gaap measures of operating income, net income, and diluted earnings per share, and therefore should not be used in isolation, but in conjunction with the u.s. gaap measures. the use of any non-gaap measure may produce results that vary from the u.s. gaap measure and may not be comparable to a similarly defined non-gaap measure used by other companies. 24 table of contents liquidity and capital resources our financial position as of may 31, 2019 remained strong with cash, restricted cash, and total corporate investments of $779.9 million and total long-term debt of $ 796.4 million. we believe that our investments in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2019 were not other-than-temporarily impaired, nor has any event occurred subsequent to that date to indicate any other-than-temporary impairment. we anticipate that cash, restricted cash, and total corporate investments as of may 31, 2019 , along with projected operating cash flows and available short-term financing, will support our normal business operations, capital purchases, share repurchases, and dividend payments for the foreseeable future. financing we maintain credit facilities and letters of credit as part of our normal and recurring business operations. credit facilities: we maintain three committed, unsecured credit facilities as follows: bank borrower (1) date entered expiration date maximum amount available purpose jp morgan chase bank, n.a. (2) paychex of new york, llc august 5, 2015 august 5, 2020 $1 billion to meet short-term funding requirements. jp morgan chase bank, n.a. (2) paychex of new york, llc august 17, 2017 august 17, 2022 $500 million to meet short-term funding requirements. pnc bank, national association ( pnc ) paychex advance, llc march 17, 2016 march 17, 2020 $150 million to finance working capital needs and general corporate purposes. (1) borrower is a wholly owned subsidiary of the company. (2) jp morgan chase bank, n.a. ( jpm ) acts as the administrative agent for this syndicated credit facility. for all credit facilities, obligations under any facility are guaranteed by the company and certain of its subsidiaries and will bear interest at competitive rates based on options provided to the borrower. upon the expiration date, any borrowings outstanding will mature and be payable on such date . jpm $1 billion credit facility: there were no borrowings o utstanding under this credit facility as of may 31, 2019. details of borrowings under this credit facility are as follows: year ended may 31, $ in millions 2019 2018 number of days borrowed 95 22 maximum amount borrowed $ 483.0 $ 700.0 weighted-average amount borrowed $ 387.7 $ 319.1 weighted-average interest rate 3.64 % 4.27 % we typically borrow on an overnight basis. in addition to overnight borrowings, we also borrowed: fiscal 2019 - $400.0 million for 84 days at a weighted-average libor-based interest rate of 3.45% to temporarily fund the acquisition of oasis. this temporary borrowing was subsequently refinanced as outlined in note n to the financial statements; fiscal 2018 - $100.0 million for a three-day period at a weighted-average interest rate of 4.25%. subsequent to may 31, 2019, we borrowed two times, on an overnight basis, $187.8 million on a weighted-average basis under this line. 25 table of contents jpm $500 million credit facility: there were no borrowings outstanding under this credit facility as of may 31, 2019. details of borrowings under this credit facility are as follows: year ended may 31, $ in millions 2019 2018 number of days borrowed 92 42 maximum amount borrowed $ 400.0 $ 400.0 weighted-average amount borrowed $ 375.6 $ 144.8 weighted-average interest rate 3.55 % 2.80 % we typically borrow on an overnight basis. in addition to overnight borrowings, we also borrowed: fiscal 2019 $400 million for 84 days at a weighted-average libor-based interest rate of 3.45% to temporarily fund the acquisition of oasis. this temporary borrowing was subsequently refinanced as outlined in note n to the financial statements; fiscal 2018 $300.0 million for seven days and $75.0 million for 30 days at weighted average libor-based interest rates of 2.13% and 2.19%, respectively. subsequent to may 31, 2019, we borrowed two times, on an overnight basis, $178.0 million on a weighted-average basis under this line. pnc $150 million credit facility: there were no borrowings outstanding under this credit facility as of may 31, 2019. details of borrowings under this credit facility are as follows: year ended may 31, $ in millions 2019 2018 number of days borrowed 359 358 maximum amount borrowed $ 58.9 $ 59.9 weighted-average amount borrowed $ 56.1 $ 57.2 weighted-average interest rate 2.81 % 1.94 % subsequent to may 31, 2019, we borrowed approximately $54.9 milli on under this line, which remains outstanding as of the date of this report. all of our credit facilities contain various financial and operational covenants that are usual and customary for such arrangements. we were in compliance with all of these covenants as of may 31, 2019. certain lenders under these credit facilities, and their respective affiliates, have performed, and may in the future perform for us, various commercial banking, investment banking, underwriting, and other financial advisory services, for which they have received, and will continue to receive in the future, customary fees and expenses. long-term financing : on march 13, 2019, we borrowed $800.0 million to replace short-term borrowings under the jpm credit facilities used to fund the acquisition of oasis through the issuance of the following lon g-term private placement debt: may 31, in millions 2019 senior notes, series a $ 400.0 senior notes, series b 400.0 total long-term borrowings 800.0 less: debt issuance costs, net of accumulated amortization (3.6) long-term borrowings, net of debt issuance costs $ 796.4 26 table of contents certain information related to the senior notes are as follows: senior notes senior notes series a series b stated interest rate 4.07% 4.25% effective interest rate 4.16% 4.32% interest rate type fixed fixed interest payment dates semi-annual, in arrears semi-annual, in arrears principal payment dates march 13, 2026 march 13, 2029 note type unsecured unsecured t he effective interest rates for each note series includes the interest on the note and amortization of debt issuance costs. the senior notes contain customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants that are usual and customary for such arrangements. we were in compliance with all of these covenants as of may 31, 2019. letters of credit: as of may 31, 2019 , we had irrevocable standby letters of credit available totaling $148.9 million, required to secure commitments for certain insurance policies. the letters of credit expire at various dates between july 2019 and july 2020. no amounts were outstanding on these letters of credit during fiscal 2019 or as of may 31, 2019 . subsequent to may 31, 2019 , the letter of credit expiring in july 201 9 was renewed through july 20 20 . other commitments: the following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of may 31, 2019 : payments due by period less than more than in millions total 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years 5 years operating leases (1) $ 123.9 $ 37.7 $ 51.2 $ 24.3 $ 10.7 purchase obligations (2) 119.2 105.1 13.8 0.3 workers' compensation estimated obligations 170.7 71.1 50.2 18.6 30.8 debt service obligations (3) 1,084.0 33.3 66.6 66.5 917.6 total $ 1,497.8 $ 247.2 $ 181.8 $ 109.7 $ 959.1 (1) operating leases are primarily for office space and equipment used in our branch operations. (2) purchase obligations include our estimate of the minimum outstanding commitments under purchase orders to buy goods and services and legally binding contractual arrangements with future payment obligations. included in the total purchase obligations is $5.6 million of commitments to purchase capital assets. amounts actually paid under certain of these arrangements may be different due to variable components of these agreements. (3) includes principal and interest payments on our senior notes. refer to note n of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for more information . the liability for uncertain tax positions, including interest and net of federal benefits, was approximately $21.6 million as of may 31, 2019 . refer to note k of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for more information on income taxes. we are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to this liability and have excluded it from the table above. during fiscal 2017 we entered into a limited partnership agreement to contribute a maximum amount of $10.0 million to a venture capital fund in the financial technology sector, of which approximately $6.1 million has been contributed as of may 31, 2019 . in late fiscal 2019, we entered into a second limited partnership agreement to contribute a maximum amount of $10.0 million to a venture capital fund in the financial technology sector, of which $0.1 million has been contributed as of may 31, 2019. the timing of future contributions to be made to these venture capital funds cannot be specifically or reasonably determined and thus have been excluded from the table above. in the normal course of business, we make representations and warranties that guarantee the performance of services under service arrangements with clients. historically, there have been no material losses related to such guarantees. in addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, which require us to defend and, if necessary, indemnify these individuals for certain pending or future legal claims as they relate to their services provided to us. 27 table of contents we currently self-insure the deductible portion of various insured exposures under certain corporate employee benefit plans. our estimated loss exposure under these insurance arrangements is recorded in other current liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. historically, the amounts accrued have not been material and are not material as of the reporting date. we also maintain corporate insurance coverage in addition to our purchased primary insurance policies for gap coverage for employment practices liability, errors and omissions, warranty liability, theft and embezzlement, cyber threats, and acts of terrorism; and capacity for deductibles and self-insured retentions through our captive insurance company. we have substantially completed our plan for a new multi-building paychex campus, including the renovation of over 300,000 square feet based in rochester, ny. in fiscal 2018, we completed the purchase of five buildings for a combined cost of approximately $34.7 million and placed approximately $16.0 million in escrow for the building renovations. there was no remaining balance in escrow as of may 31, 2019 , and building renovations are expected to be completed later this calendar year. off-balance sheet arrangements as part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions with unconsolidated entities which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other limited purposes. we do maintain investments as a limited partner in both low-income housing projects and venture capital funds focused on the financial technology sector. these are not considered part of our ongoing operations. these investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and represented less than one percent of our total assets as of may 31, 2019 . operating cash flow activities year ended may 31, 2018 2017 in millions 2019 as adjusted (1) as adjusted (1) net income $ 1,034.4 $ 994.1 $ 826.3 non-cash adjustments to net income 464.9 389.0 431.7 cash used in changes in operating assets and liabilities (227.8) (106.7) (297.6) net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,271.5 $ 1,276.4 $ 960.4 (1) amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of asc topic 606. the changes in our operating cash flows for both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 compared to the prior fiscal year periods were due to higher net income. net income in both fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 benefited from the enactment of the tax act. the change in our operating cash flows for fiscal 2019 was also due to higher adjustments for non-cash items, offset by fluctuations in our operating assets and liabilities. the increase in non-cash adjustments for fiscal 2019 was primarily due to a higher provision for deferred income taxes and higher amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired through the acquisitions of oasis and lessor. the fluctuations in our operating assets and liabilities between all periods were impacted by the timing of collections from peo clients and payments, peo payroll, income tax, and other liabilities. in addition, the larger outflows in fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2017 were impacted by higher accounts receivable balances related to growth in our payroll funding business for temporary staffing agency clients. investing cash flow activities year ended may 31, 2018 2017 in millions 2019 as adjusted (1) as adjusted (1) net change in purchases and sales/maturities of available-for-sale securities $ (507.0) $ 1,372.7 $ (559.3) purchases of property and equipment (123.8) (154.0) (94.3) acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (992.2) (180.4) purchases of other assets (5.3) (39.8) (8.6) net cash (used in)/provided by investing activities $ (1,628.3) $ 998.5 $ (662.2) (1) amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of accounting standards update no. 2016-18, statement of cash flows (topic 230): restricted cash (a consensus of the financial accounting standards board emerging issues task force). purchases and sales/maturities of available-for-sale securities: available-for-sale securities include funds held for clients and corporate investments. the portfolio of funds held for clients and corporate investments is detailed in note g of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k. 28 table of contents fluctuations in the net change in purchases and sales/maturities of available-for-sale securities are largely due to timing within the client funds portfolio. t he amount of funds held for clients will vary based upon the timing of collection of client funds, and the related remittance of funds to applicable tax or regulatory agencies for payroll tax administration services and to employees of clients utilizing employee payment services. specific timing impacting cash flows for fiscal years 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 are discussed further in the financing cash flows discussion of net changes in client fund obligations. for fiscal 2019, in addition to timing fluctuations, the net change in funds held for clients was impacted by changes in investment mix. fiscal 2018 experienced greater sales of investments to fund client remittances than purchases of investments , whereas fiscal 2017 reflected greater purchases of investments than sales . additional discussion of interest rates and related risks is included in the market risk factors section contained in item 7a of this form 10-k. other investing activities: to support our continued client and ancillary product growth, purchases of property and equipment were made for data processing equipment and software, and for the expansion and upgrade of various operating facilities. the net cash outflow for purchases of property and equipment during fiscal 2018 includes the purchase of five buildings and ongoing renovations of over 300,000 square feet of existing space in rochester, ny. acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired, reflects our acquisitions of oasis in december 2018, lessor in february 2018, and hroi in august 2017. for the oasis and lessor acquisitions consideration was cash while the hroi acquisition was a combination of cash and common stock. purchases of other assets relates primarily to client list acquisitions. during fiscal 2018, we resolved a contractual dispute with certain licensees. as it relates to this agreement, we acquired rights to certain client lists for approximately $30.0 million. financing cash flow activities year ended may 31, in millions, except per share amounts 2019 2018 2017 net change in client fund obligations $ (950.6) $ 462.4 $ 317.3 net proceeds from long-term borrowings 796.3 dividends paid (826.8) (739.7) (662.3) repurchases of common shares (56.9) (143.1) (166.2) activity related to equity-based plans 29.5 (3.4) 28.5 net cash used in financing activities $ (1,008.5) $ (423.8) $ (482.7) cash dividends per common share $ 2.30 $ 2.06 $ 1.84 net change in client fund obligations: the client fund obligations liability will vary based on the timing of collecting client funds, and the related required remittance of funds to applicable tax or regulatory agencies for payroll tax administration services and to employees of clients utilizing employee payment services. collections from clients are typically remitted from one to 30 days after receipt, with some items extending to 90 days. client fund obligation balances are significantly impacted by the timing of the period end. fluctuations in the net change in client fund obligations for the years presented are primarily the result of timing of collections and remittances and overall trends in client fund balances. may 31, 2019 fell on a friday, which is a significant disbursement day for direct pay funds. may 31, 2018 fell on a thursday, which is a significant collection day for direct pay funds. these funds were then paid out on friday june 1, 2018. may 31, 2017 fell on a wednesday which is not a significant collection day for payroll tax funds but the federal semi-weekly tax payment was delayed until thursday, june 1, 2017 due to the memorial day holiday weekend. as such, a higher than expected client fund obligation existed on may 31, 2017. net proceeds from long-term borrowings: in fiscal 2019, we financed $800.0 million related to the acquisition of oasis through the issuance of lon g-term private placement debt. refer to note n of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for additional disclosures on our long-term financing. dividends paid: in may 2019 and april 2018, our board increased our quarterly dividend to shareholders by 11% to $0.62 per share from $0.56 per share, and by 12% to $0.56 per share from $0.50 per share, respectively. the dividends paid as a percentage of net income totaled 80%, 79%, and 81% for fiscal years 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively. the payment of future dividends is dependent on our future earnings and cash flow, and is subject to the discretion of our board. 29 table of contents repurchases of common shares: in july 2016, our board approved a program to repurchase up to $350.0 million of our common stock, authorized through may 31, 2019. during fiscal 2019 , we repurchased 0.7 million shares for a total of $56.9 million . during fiscal 2018 , we repurchased 2.5 million shares for a total of $143.1 million. during fiscal 2017 , we repurchased 2.9 million shares for a total of $166.2 million, of which $59.7 million was repurchased under a previously authorized common stock repurchase program. all shares repurchased were retired. in may 2019, our board approved a program to repurchase up to $400.0 million of our common stock, with authorization running from june 1, 2019 through may 31, 2022. the purpose of these programs is to manage common stock dilution. activity related to equity-based plans: the increase in cash flows related to stock-based awards for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 and the decrease for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 were largely driven by changes in proceeds received from the exercise of stock options. shares of common stock issued through the exercise of stock options were 0.9 million shares, 0.6 million shares, and 1.4 million shares for fiscal years 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively. refer to note f of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for additional disclosures on our stock-based compensation plans. other recently issued accounting pronouncements: refer to note a of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 30 table of contents critical accounting policies note a of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k discusses the significant accounting policies of paychex. our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. on an ongoing basis, we evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. we base our estimates on historical experience, future expectations, and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. actual amounts and results could differ from these estimates. certain accounting policies that are deemed critical to our results of operations or financial position are discussed below. revenue recognition: service revenue is recognized in the period services are rendered and earned under service arrangements with clients where service fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. our service revenue is largely attributable to processing services where the fee is based on a fixed amount per processing period or a fixed amount per processing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed. fees earned for funding of temporary staffing clients payrolls via purchase of accounts receivable are based on a percentage of funding amounts as specified in the client contract. the revenue earned from delivery service for the distribution of certain client payroll checks and reports is included in service revenue, and the costs for delivery are included in operating expenses on the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. we receive advance p ayments for set-up fees on some of our service offerings from our clients. advance payments received for certain of our service offerings are considered a material right. we defer the revenue associated with these advance payments, recognizing the revenue and related expenses over the expected period to which the right exists. peo revenue is included in service revenue and is reported net of certain pass-through costs billed and incurred, which primarily include payroll wages, payroll taxes, including federal and state unemployment insurance, and certain guaranteed cost benefit premiums. direct costs related to workers compensation and certain benefit plans where we retain risk are recognized as operating expenses rather than as a reduction in service revenue. interest on funds held for clients is earned primarily on funds that are collected from clients before due dates for payroll tax administration services and for employee payment services, and invested until remittance to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies or client employees. these collections from clients are typically remitted from one to 30 days after receipt, with some items extending to 90 days. the interest earned on these funds is included in total revenue on the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income because the collecting, holding, and remitting of these funds are components of providing these services. peo insurance reserves: as part of the peo service, we offer workers compensation insurance and health insurance to clients for the benefit of client employees. workers' compensation insurance is primarily provided under fully insured high deductible workers compensation insurance policies. workers compensation insurance reserves are established to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims up to per occurrence liability limits. in establishing the peo workers' compensation insurance reserves, we use an independent actuarial estimate of undiscounted future cash payments that would be made to settle the claims. with respect to our peo health insurance, we offer various health insurance plans that take the form of either fully insured guaranteed cost plans with various national insurance carriers or a fully insured minimum premium insurance arrangement with coverage provided through a single national carrier. under the minimum premium insurance arrangement, our health benefits insurance reserves are established to provide for the payment of claims in accordance with our service contract with the carrier. the claims liability includes estimates for reported losses, plus amounts for those claims incurred but not reported, and estimates of certain expenses associated with processing and settling the claims. estimating the ultimate cost of future claims is an uncertain and complex process based upon historical loss experience and actuarial loss projections, and is subject to change due to multiple factors, including economic trends, changes in legal liability law, and damage awards, all of which could materially impact the reserves as reported in the consolidated financial statements. accordingly, final claim settlements may vary from the present estimates, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we regularly review the adequacy of our estimated insurance reserves. adjustments to previously established reserves are reflected in the results of operations for the period in which the adjustment is identified. such adjustments could possibly be significant, reflecting any combination of new and adverse or favorable trends. adjustments to previously established reserves were not material for the fiscal years 2019, 2018, or 2017. 31 table of contents goodwill and other intangible assets: goodwill is not amortized, but instead is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change in a way to indicate that there has been a potential decline in the fair value of the reporting unit. we perform our annual impairment testing in our fiscal fourth quarter. for fiscal 2019 , it was determined that the company has three reporting units. a qualitative analysis was performed for all reporting units in fiscal 2019 , to determine if it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting units had declined below its carrying value. the qualitative assessment considered various financial, macroeconomic, industry, and reporting unit specific qualitative factors. based on the results of our testing, no impairment loss was recognized in the results of operations for fiscal 2019 , 2018 , or 2017 . subsequent to the latest review, there have been no events or circumstances that indicate any potential impairment of the company goodwill balance. we also test intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for potential impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. we have determined that there is no impairment of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for fiscal 2019, 2018, or 2017. impairment of long-lived assets: long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite lives, are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. we have determined that there is no impairment of long-lived assets for fiscal 2019 , 2018 , or 2017 . stock-based compensation costs: all stock-based awards to employees, including grants of stock options, are recognized as compensation costs in our consolidated financial statements based on their fair values measured as of the date of grant. we estimate the fair value of stock option grants using a black-scholes option pricing model. this model requires various assumptions as inputs including expected volatility of the paychex stock price and expected option life. we estimate volatility based on a combination of historical volatility using stock prices over a period equal to the expected option life and implied market volatility. expected option life is estimated based on historical exercise behavior. we periodically reassess our assumptions as well as our choice of valuation model and will reconsider use of this model if additional information becomes available in the future indicating that another model would provide a more accurate estimate of fair value, or if characteristics of future grants would warrant such a change. the fair value of stock awards is determined based on the stock price at the date of grant. for grants that do not accrue dividends or dividend equivalents, the fair value is the stock price reduced by the present value of estimated dividends over the vesting period or performance period. we estimate forfeitures and only record compensation costs for those awards that are expected to vest. our assumptions for forfeitures were determined based on type of award and historical experience. forfeiture assumptions are adjusted at the point in time a significant change is identified, with any adjustment recorded in the period of change, and the final adjustment at the end of the requisite service period to equal actual forfeitures. the assumptions of volatility, expected option life, and forfeitures all require significant judgment and are subject to change in the future due to factors such as employee exercise behavior, stock price trends, and changes to type or provisions of stock-based awards. any change in one or more of these assumptions could have a material impact on the estimated fair value of a future award. refer to note f of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for further discussion of our stock-based compensation plans. income taxes: we account for deferred taxes by recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the consolidated financial statements or tax returns. under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the fiscal year in which the differences are expected to reverse. we record a deferred tax asset related to the stock-based compensation costs recognized for certain stock-based awards. at the time of the exercise of non-qualified stock options or vesting of stock awards, we recognize any excess tax benefit within income taxes in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. 32 table of contents the tax act enacted in december 2017 was the most comprehensive tax reform legislation approved in more than two decades and made broad and complex changes to the u.s. federal corporate income taxation, including, but not limited to: (i) reducing the statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% (a blended statutory tax rate of 29.2% for fiscal 2018); (ii) creating new or furthering limitations to the deductibility of officer compensation, interest, meals, entertainment, and other expenses; and (iii) changing from a worldwide to a territorial taxation system. as a result of the tax act, we made a one-time revaluation of our net deferred tax liabilities and made a change in the company annual effective income tax rate applied to income before income taxes for the first six months of fiscal 2018. refer to note k of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for further details. we maintain a reserve for uncertain tax positions. we evaluate tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return for recognition in our consolidated financial statements. prior to recording the related tax benefit in our consolidated financial statements, we must conclude that tax positions will be more-likely-than-not to be sustained, assuming those positions will be examined by taxing authorities with full knowledge of all relevant information. the benefit recognized in our consolidated financial statements is the amount we expect to realize after examination by taxing authorities. if a tax position drops below the more-likely-than-not standard, the benefit can no longer be recognized. assumptions, judgment, and the use of estimates are required in determining if the more-likely-than-not standard has been met when developing the provision for income taxes and in determining the expected benefit. a change in the assessment of the more-likely-than-not standard could impact our results of operations or financial position. refer to note k of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for further discussion of our reserve for uncertain tax positions. 33 table of contents ite m 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. we follow an investment strategy of protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. a substantial portion of our portfolios are invested in high credit quality securities with ratings of aa or higher, and a-1/p-1 ratings on short-term securities. we invest predominately in municipal bonds including general obligation bonds; pre-refunded bonds, which are secured by a u.s. government escrow; and essential services revenue bonds along with u.s. government agency and treasury securities and corporate bonds. we limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest primarily in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. we manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. during fiscal 2019 , our primary short-term investment vehicles were government agency discount notes, vrdns, and bank demand deposit accounts. we have no exposure to high-risk or illiquid investments. we have insignificant exposure to european investments. we have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. during fiscal 2019 , the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 1.9% , compared to 1.5% and 1.2% for fiscal years 2018 and 2017 , respectively. when interest rates are rising, the full impact of higher interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. during a rising interest rate environment, earnings increase from our short-term investments, and over time earnings increase from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from the available-for-sale securities, which as of may 31, 2019 had an average duration of 2.9 years, would not reflect increases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at higher rates. the amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of may 31, 2019 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2019 amortized fair in millions cost value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 183.5 $ 183.4 due after one year through three years 898.9 903.1 due after three years through five years 989.2 998.7 due after five years 1,529.5 1,535.6 total $ 3,601.1 $ 3,620.8 vrdns are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. the federal reserve has periodically raised the federal funds rate in each of fiscal years 2019, 2018, and 2017. as of may 31, 2019 , the federal funds rate was in the range of 2.25% to 2.50% as compared to a range of 1.50% to 1.75% as of may 31, 2018 , and in the range of 0.75% to 1.00% as of may 31, 2017 . calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: daily interest rate changes; seasonal variations in investment balances; actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities; the proportion of taxable and tax-exempt investments; changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and 34 table of contents financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates. subject to these factors and under normal financial market conditions, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. under normal financial market conditions, the impact to earnings from a 25-basis-point change in short-term interest rates would be approximately $3.0 million to $4.0 million, after taxes, for a twelve-month period. such a basis point change may or may not be tied to changes in the federal funds rate. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) averaged approximately $ 4.8 billion for fiscal 2019 . our anticipated allocation is approximately 45% invested in short-term securities and vrdns with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 55% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized gain of $19.7 million as of may 31, 2019 , compared with a net unrealized loss of $38.3 million as of may 31, 2018 . refer to note g of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for additional disclosures on fair value measurements. during fiscal 2019 , the net unrealized gain or loss on our investment portfolios ranged from an unrealized gain of $19.7 million to an unrealized loss of $ 60.7 million. during fiscal 2018 , the net unrealized gain or loss on our investment portfolios ranged from an unrealized gain of $ 41.4 million to an unrealized loss of $ 54.5 million. the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios was approximately $31.6 million as of july 17, 2019 . as of may 31, 2019 and 2018 , we had $3.6 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 2.1% and 1.9% as of may 31, 2019 and may 31, 2018, respectively. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates such as the vrdns. assuming a hypothetical increase in longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of may 31, 2019 , would be in the range of $15.0 million to $20.0 million. conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in fair value. this hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity. these fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized. credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. we regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. we believe that the investments we held as of may 31, 2019 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. while $567.9 million of our available-for-sale securities had fair values that were below amortized cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that unrealized losses of $2.7 million were due to changes in interest rates and were not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. a majority of these securities in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2019 and 2018 held an aa rating or better. we do not intend to sell these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believe that it is not more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these investments prior to that time. our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. we have some credit risk exposure in connection with our purchase of accounts receivable as a means of providing payroll funding to clients in the temporary staffing industry. this credit risk exposure is diversified amongst multiple client arrangements and all such arrangements are regularly reviewed for potential write-off. no single client is material in respect to total accounts receivable, service revenue, or results of operations. 35 table of contents ite m 8. financial statements and supplementary data table of contents description page report on management assessment of internal control over financial reporting 37 report of independent registered public accounting firm 38 consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the years ended may 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 40 consolidated balance sheets as of may 31, 2019 and 2018 41 consolidated statements of stockholders equity for the years ended may 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 42 consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended may 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 43 notes to consolidated financial statements 44 schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts for the years ended may 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017 80 36 table of contents repo rt on management assessment of internal control over financial reporting management of paychex, inc. (the company ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the company internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. management assessed the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2019. in making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission in internal control integrated framework (2013). based on our assessment, management determined that the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2019. on december 20, 2018 , we completed our acquisition of oasis outsourcing group holdings, l.p. ( oasis ) . we are in the process of evaluating the existing controls and procedures of oasis and integrating oasis into our internal control over financial r eporting. in accordance with securities and exchange commission staff guidance , permitting a company to exclude an acquired business from management assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for the year in which the acquisition is completed, we have excluded oasis from our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2019 . oasis represented 8 % of the company total assets as of may 31, 2019 and 4% of the company revenues for the year ended may 31, 2019. the scope of management assessment of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the company disclosure controls and procedures as of may 31, 2019 includes all of the company consolidated operations except for those disclosure controls and procedures of oasis that are subsumed by internal control over financial reporting. the company independent registered public accounting firm, pricewaterhousecoopers llp, is appointed by the company audit committee. pricewaterhousecoopers llp has audited the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k and the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2019, and as a part of their integrated audit, has issued their report, included herein, on the effectiveness of the company internal control over financial reporting. /s/ martin mucci martin mucci president and chief executive officer /s/ efrain rivera efrain rivera senior vice president, chief financial officer, and treasurer 37 table of contents re port of independent registered public accounting firm to the board of directors and shareholders of paychex, inc. opinions on the financial statements and internal control over financial reporting we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of paychex, inc. and its subsidiaries as of may 31, 2019 and 2018, and the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, of stockholders equity, and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended may 31, 2019, including the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index (collectively referred to as the consolidated financial statements ). we also have audited the company's internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2019, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the company as of may 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended may 31, 2019 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. also in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2019, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the coso. basis for opinions the company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying report on management assessment of internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express opinions on the company consolidated financial statements and on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. we are a public accounting firm registered with the public company accounting oversight board (united states) ("pcaob") and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. as described in the report on management assessment of internal control over financial reporting, management has excluded oasis outsourcing group holdings, l.p. from its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2019 because it was acquired by the company in a purchase business combination during the year ended may 31, 2019. we have also excluded oasis outsourcing group holdings, l.p. from our audit of internal control over financial reporting. oasis outsourcing group holdings, l.p. is a wholly-owned subsidiary whose total assets and total revenues excluded from management assessment and our audit of internal control over financial reporting represent 8% and 4%, respectively, of the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended may 31, 2019. definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the 38 table of contents company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. /s/ pricewaterhousecoopers llp rochester, new york july 24 , 2019 we have served as the company auditor since 2013. 39 table of contents pa ychex, inc. consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income in millions, except per share amounts 2018 2017 year ended may 31, 2019 as adjusted (1) as adjusted (1) revenue: management solutions $ 2,877.7 $ 2,758.4 $ 2,680.7 peo and insurance services 814.2 555.8 421.7 total service revenue 3,691.9 3,314.2 3,102.4 interest on funds held for clients 80.6 63.5 50.6 total revenue 3,772.5 3,377.7 3,153.0 expenses: operating expenses 1,177.8 1,018.2 919.4 selling, general and administrative expenses 1,223.4 1,068.0 979.7 total expenses 2,401.2 2,086.2 1,899.1 operating income 1,371.3 1,291.5 1,253.9 interest (expense)/income, net (3.3) 8.6 5.2 income before income taxes 1,368.0 1,300.1 1,259.1 income taxes 333.6 306.0 432.8 net income $ 1,034.4 $ 994.1 $ 826.3 other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax 36.3 (56.2) (9.2) comprehensive income $ 1,070.7 $ 937.9 $ 817.1 basic earnings per share $ 2.88 $ 2.77 $ 2.30 diluted earnings per share $ 2.86 $ 2.75 $ 2.28 weighted-average common shares outstanding 359.2 359.0 359.8 weighted-average common shares outstanding, assuming dilution 361.8 361.5 362.6 (1) amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of accounting standards codification ( asc ) topic 606, revenue from contracts with customers ( asc topic 606 ). see notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 table of contents pa ychex, inc. consolidated balance sheets in millions, except per share amounts 2018 as of may 31, 2019 as adjusted (1) assets cash and cash equivalents $ 673.6 $ 358.2 restricted cash 50.6 corporate investments 39.0 66.0 interest receivable 27.4 32.2 accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts 420.5 374.6 peo unbilled receivables, net of advance collections 406.3 117.8 prepaid income taxes 22.6 17.0 prepaid expenses and other current assets 233.9 224.0 current assets before funds held for clients 1,873.9 1,189.8 funds held for clients 3,803.8 4,703.8 total current assets 5,677.7 5,893.6 long-term restricted cash 6.5 long-term corporate investments 10.2 295.5 property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation 408.7 393.5 intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization 399.1 141.4 goodwill 1,782.6 814.0 long-term deferred costs 366.3 361.0 other long-term assets 24.9 16.4 total assets $ 8,676.0 $ 7,915.4 liabilities accounts payable $ 75.9 $ 73.7 accrued corporate compensation and related items 146.4 121.5 accrued worksite employee compensation and related items 578.6 176.1 deferred revenue 40.3 34.6 other current liabilities 219.5 155.9 current liabilities before client fund obligations 1,060.7 561.8 client fund obligations 3,784.3 4,734.9 total current liabilities 4,845.0 5,296.7 accrued income taxes 27.3 18.4 deferred income taxes 223.1 154.4 long-term borrowings, net of debt issuance costs 796.4 other long-term liabilities 164.7 89.1 total liabilities 6,056.5 5,558.6 commitments and contingencies note q stockholders equity common stock, $0.01 par value; authorized: 600.0 shares; issued and outstanding: 359.3 shares as of may 31, 2019 and 359.0 shares as of may 31, 2018, respectively. 3.6 3.6 additional paid-in capital 1,206.3 1,126.8 retained earnings 1,409.5 1,262.6 accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) 0.1 (36.2) total stockholders equity 2,619.5 2,356.8 total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 8,676.0 $ 7,915.4 (1) amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of asc topic 606 and to provide further detail related to certain professional employer organization ( peo ) balances. see notes to consolidated financial statements. 41 table of contents pay chex, inc. consolidated statements of stockholders equity in millions accumulated additional other common stock paid-in retained comprehensive shares amount capital earnings (1) income/(loss) total balance as of may 31, 2016 360.4 $ 3.6 $ 952.7 $ 926.2 $ 29.2 $ 1,911.7 net income 826.3 826.3 cumulative impact of adoption of asc topic 606 262.9 262.9 unrealized losses on securities, net of tax (9.2) (9.2) cash dividends declared ( $1.84 per share) (662.3) (662.3) repurchases of common shares (2.9) (5.4) (160.8) (166.2) stock-based compensation 35.4 35.4 activity related to equity-based plans 1.9 47.3 (18.7) 28.6 balance as of may 31, 2017 359.4 3.6 1,030.0 1,173.6 20.0 2,227.2 net income 994.1 994.1 unrealized losses on securities, net of tax (47.6) (47.6) cash dividends declared ( $2.06 per share) (739.7) (739.7) repurchases of common shares (2.5) (4.5) (138.6) (143.1) acquisition of businesses 0.6 33.2 33.2 stock-based compensation 44.6 44.6 foreign currency translation adjustment (8.6) (8.6) activity related to equity-based plans 1.5 23.5 (26.8) (3.3) balance as of may 31, 2018 359.0 3.6 1,126.8 1,262.6 (36.2) 2,356.8 net income 1,034.4 1,034.4 unrealized gains on securities, net of tax 44.0 44.0 cash dividends declared ( $2.30 per share) (826.8) (826.8) repurchases of common shares (0.7) (1.4) (55.5) (56.9) stock-based compensation 46.2 46.2 foreign currency translation adjustment (7.7) (7.7) activity related to equity-based plans 1.0 34.7 (5.2) 29.5 balance as of may 31, 2019 359.3 $ 3.6 $ 1,206.3 $ 1,409.5 $ 0.1 $ 2,619.5 (1) amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of asc topic 606. see notes to consolidated financial statements. 42 table of contents pa ychex, inc. consolidated statements of cash flows in millions 2018 2017 year ended may 31, 2019 as adjusted (1)(2) as adjusted (1)(2) operating activities net income $ 1,034.4 $ 994.1 $ 826.3 adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation and amortization on property and equipment and intangible assets 181.5 138.0 126.9 amortization of premiums and discounts on available-for-sale securities, net 49.0 65.4 72.5 amortization of deferred contract costs 180.2 174.7 169.4 stock-based compensation costs 46.2 44.6 35.4 provision/(benefit) for deferred income taxes 4.7 (37.2) 22.7 provision for allowance for doubtful accounts 3.3 3.6 4.9 net realized gains on sales of available-for-sale securities (0.1) (0.1) changes in operating assets and liabilities: interest receivable 4.8 3.7 0.2 accounts receivable and peo unbilled receivables, net (117.2) 16.2 (103.3) prepaid expenses and other current assets 1.0 18.0 (32.2) accounts payable and other current liabilities 77.5 42.9 38.2 deferred costs (188.5) (181.8) (185.6) net change in other long-term assets and liabilities (5.4) (5.7) (14.9) net cash provided by operating activities 1,271.5 1,276.4 960.4 investing activities purchases of available-for-sale securities (35,145.8) (50,220.2) (50,462.3) proceeds from sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities 34,638.8 51,592.9 49,903.0 purchases of property and equipment (123.8) (154.0) (94.3) acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (992.2) (180.4) purchases of other assets (5.3) (39.8) (8.6) net cash (used in)/provided by investing activities (1,628.3) 998.5 (662.2) financing activities net change in client fund obligations (950.6) 462.4 317.3 net proceeds from long-term borrowings 796.3 dividends paid (826.8) (739.7) (662.3) repurchases of common shares (56.9) (143.1) (166.2) activity related to equity-based plans 29.5 (3.4) 28.5 net cash used in financing activities (1,008.5) (423.8) (482.7) net change in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents (1,365.3) 1,851.1 (184.5) cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents, beginning of fiscal year 2,300.5 449.4 633.9 cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents, end of fiscal year $ 935.2 $ 2,300.5 $ 449.4 reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents to the consolidated balance sheets: cash and cash equivalents $ 673.6 $ 358.2 $ 184.6 restricted cash 57.1 restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents included in funds held for clients 204.5 1,942.3 264.8 total cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents $ 935.2 $ 2,300.5 $ 449.4 (1) amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of accounting standards update ( asu ) no. 2016-18, statement of cash flows (topic 230): restricted cash (a consensus of the fasb emerging issues task force). (2) amounts have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of asc topic 606 . see notes to consolidated financial statements. 43 table of contents pay chex, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements note a description of business, basis of presentation, and significant accounting policies description of business: paychex, inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (collectively, the company or paychex ) is a leading provider of integrated human capital management ( hcm ) solutions for payroll, benefits, human resource ( hr ), retirement, and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses in the united states ( u.s. ). the company also has operations in europe. paychex, a delaware corporation formed in 1979 , reports as one segment. substantially all of the company revenue is generated within the u.s. the company also generates revenue within europe, which represented one percent of the company's total revenue for the fiscal year ended may 31, 2019 ( fiscal 2019 ), and less than one percent for each of the fiscal years ended may 31, 2018 ( fiscal 2018 ) and may 31, 2017 ( fiscal 2017 ). long-lived assets in europe were approximately 5% and 10% of total long-lived assets of the company as of may 31, 2019 and may 31, 2018 , respectively. paychex offers a comprehensive portfolio of hcm services and products that allow its clients to meet their diverse payroll and hr needs. clients can select services on an la carte basis or as part of various product bundles. paychex offerings often leverage the information gathered in its base payroll processing service, allowing the company to provide comprehensive outsourcing services covering the hcm spectrum. paychex supports its small business clients utilizing its proprietary, robust, paychex flex processing platform or surepayroll online application. both products are cloud-based software-as-a-service ( saas ) solutions that allow users to process payroll when they want, how they want, and on any device (desktop, tablet, and mobile phone). clients with more complex payroll and benefits needs are serviced through the paychex flex enterprise solution set, which offers an integrated suite of hcm solutions through the paychex flex platform, or through a legacy platform. the saas solution through paychex flex enterprise integrates payroll processing with hr management, employee benefits administration, time and labor management, applicant tracking, onboarding solutions, and performance and learning management. paychex flex enterprise allows clients to choose the services and software they need to meet the complexity of their business and have them integrated through one hcm solution. total revenue is comprised of service revenue and interest on funds held for clients. service revenue is comprised primarily of the fees earned on the portfolio of hcm services, which include payroll processing, complementary hr management and administration services, our peo, and insurance agency commissions. refer to note b of this item 8 for further discussion of the company service revenue. basis of presentation: the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of paychex, inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. all intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. certain disclosures are reported as zero balances due to rounding. effective june 1, 2018, the company adopted the requirements of asu no. 2014-09, revenue from contracts with customers (topic 606), and asu no. 2016-18, statement of cash flows (topic 230): restricted cash (a consensus of the fasb emerging issues task force), as discussed in the recently adopted accounting pronouncements section of thisrisk factors our future results of operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results, and from our projections. the following risk factors represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our business and are important to understanding our business. these are not the only risks we face. additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect, possibly to a material extent, our business, cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. in addition, refer to the cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. our business and results of operations have been, and our financial condition may be, impacted by the outbreak of covid-19 and such impact could be materially adverse. the global spread of covid-19 created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption. in the united states and globally, governmental authorities instituted certain preventative measures, including border closures, travel restrictions, operational restrictions on certain businesses, shelter-in-place orders, quarantines and recommendations to practice social distancing. these restrictions disrupted and may continue to disrupt economic activity, resulting in reduced commercial and consumer confidence and spending, increased unemployment, closure or restricted operating conditions for businesses, volatility in the global capital markets, instability in the credit and financial markets, labor shortages, regulatory recommendations to provide relief for impacted consumers, disruption in supply chains, and restrictions on many hospitality and travel industry operations. the extent to which the coronavirus pandemic impacts our business, operations, and financial results is uncertain and will depend on future developments, including the duration or recurrence, of the pandemic, the related length and severity of its impact on the u.s. and global economy, and the continued governmental, business and individual actions taken in response to the pandemic and economic disruption. impacts related to the covid-19 pandemic are expected to continue to pose risks to our business for the foreseeable future, heightened many of the risks and uncertainties identified below, and could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 9 table of contents our business is substantially dependent on our clients continued use of our solutions and services, and our results of operations will decline if our clients are no longer willing or able to use them. our clients are sensitive to negative changes in economic conditions. if they cease operations or file for bankruptcy protection, we may not be paid for services we already provided, and our client base will shrink, which will lower our revenue. if under financial pressure, our clients may determine that they are no longer willing to pay for the services and solutions we provide, which would reduce our revenue. our clients may decrease their workforce, which would decrease their demand for our services. because of spending constraints on our clients and competition in the industry, we may face pricing pressure on our services and face challenges in onboarding new clients, which would reduce revenue and ultimately impact our results of operations. if the third-party service providers we rely on are unable to perform their services for us and our clients, our operations could be materially disrupted and we could face significant penalties or liabilities. our operational risk, including data security risk, has increased during the pandemic as a majority of our employees are working remotely and cybercriminal activity increases in an attempt to profit from the disruption to typical operations. there has been and may continue to be a significant number of new laws and regulations promulgated by federal, state, local, and foreign governments following the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic. we have expended additional resources and incurred additional costs in addressing regulatory requirements applicable to us and our clients. these regulations may be unclear, difficult to interpret or in conflict with other applicable regulations. the failure to comply with these new laws and regulations could result in financial penalties, legal proceedings, and reputational harm. our business, services, and financial condition may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies . many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that often change. changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. our business and reputation may be adversely impacted if we fail to comply with u.s. and foreign laws and regulations . our services are subject to various laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the aca and anti-money laundering rules. the growth of our international operations via acquisition also subjects us to additional risks, such as compliance with foreign laws and regulations. the enactment of new laws and regulations, modifications of existing laws and regulations, or the adverse application or interpretation of new or existing laws or regulations can adversely affect our business. failure to update our services to comply with modified or new legislation in the area of health care reform as well as failure to educate and assist our clients regarding this legislation could adversely impact our business reputation and negatively impact our client base. failure to comply with laws and regulations could result in the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. in addition, as a u.s. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by the office of foreign assets control and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, and the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ). a violation of a sanction or embargo program, or of the fcpa, or similar laws prohibiting certain payments to governmental officials, could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties which could adversely impact our business and operations. we may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our products and services . the market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advancements, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product introductions, and enhancements and changing industry standards. to maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our current products and introduce new products in order to keep pace with products offered by our competitors; enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients' requirements; and adapt to technological advancements and changing industry standards. we continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. if our systems become outdated, it may negatively impact our ability to meet performance expectations related to quality, time to market, cost and innovation relative to our competitors. the failure to provide more efficient and user-friendly customer-facing digital experience across internet and mobile platforms as well as in physical locations may adversely impact our business and operating results. there can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. if we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. the failure to continually develop enhancements and use of technologies such as robotics and other workflow automation tools, natural language processing, and artificial intelligence/machine learning may impact our ability to increase the efficiency of and reduce costs associated with operational risk management and compliance activities. 10 table of contents we could be subject to reduced revenues, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position as a result of cyberattacks, security vulnerabilities or internet disruptions. we rely upon information technology ( it ) networks, cloud-based platforms, and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to support a variety of business processes, some of which are provided by third-party vendors. cyberattacks and security threats are a risk to our business and reputation. a cyberattack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption or outage, corruption of data, or theft of personal or other sensitive information, could have a material adverse effect on our business operations or that of our clients, result in liability or regulatory sanction, or cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss in confidence in our ability to serve clients all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the rapid speed of disruptive innovations involving cyberattacks, security vulnerabilities and internet disruptions enabled by new and emerging technologies may outpace our organization&apos;s ability to compete and/or manage the risk appropriately. in addition, cybercriminals may seek to exploit the disruption caused by the covid-19 pandemic by attempting to engage in payment-related fraud or by more frequently attempting to gain access to our systems through phishing or other means that may be more successful when most of our employees are working remotely. data security and privacy leaks : we collect, use, and retain increasingly large amounts of personal information about our clients, employees of our clients, and our employees, including: bank account numbers, credit card numbers, social security numbers, tax return information, health care information, retirement account information, payroll information, system and network passwords, and other sensitive personal and business information. at the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile cyber-attacks and data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. we may be particularly targeted for cyber-attack because of the amount and type of personal and business information that we collect, use, and retain. vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted computer crimes pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. our service platforms enable our clients to store and process personal data on premise or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment that we host. the security of our it infrastructure is an important consideration in our customers' purchasing decisions. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, are increasingly more complex and sophisticated and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable or fail to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate or timely preventative or responsive measures. as cyber threats continue to evolve, we are focused on ensuring that our operating environments safeguard and protect personal and business information. we may be required to invest significant additional resources to comply with evolving cybersecurity regulations and to modify and enhance our information security and controls, and to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. while we have security systems and it infrastructure in place designed to detect and protect against unauthorized access to such information, if our security measures are breached, our business could be substantially harmed, and we could incur significant liabilities. any such breach or unauthorized access could negatively affect our ability to attract new clients, cause existing clients to terminate their agreements with us, result in reputational damage, and subject us to lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other actions or liabilities which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. third-parties, including vendors that provide services for our operations, could also be a source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. data loss and business interruption : if our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, including internet or systems failure, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, both the company and our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. hardware, applications and services, including cloud-based services, that we develop or procure from third-party vendors may contain defects in design or other problems that could compromise the integrity and availability of our services. any delays or failures caused by network outages, software or hardware failures, or other data processing disruptions, could result in our inability to provide services in a timely fashion or at all. we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by disruptions or security breaches in the future. such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulatory investigation and penalties, loss of clients' business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 11 table of contents our reputation, results of operations, or financial condition may be adversely impacted if we fail to comply with data privacy laws and regulations. our services require the storage and transmission of proprietary and confidential information of our clients and their employees, including personal or identifying information, as well as their financial and payroll data. our applications are subject to various complex government laws and regulations on the federal, state, and local levels, including those governing personal privacy. in the u.s., we are subject to rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the federal trade commission, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, the family medical leave act of 1993, the aca, federal and state labor and employment laws, and state data breach notification and data privacy laws, such as the california consumer protection act, which became effective on january 1, 2020. in addition, the european union's general data privacy regulation became fully effective in may 2018. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the regulatory framework for privacy issues is rapidly evolving and future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our business and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. in the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations. our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, severe weather including events resulting from climate change, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, public health emergency, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. our business continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of severe weather, including hurricanes, floods, and snowstorms, and has been successful. however, these past successes are not an indicator of success in the future. if the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. we may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions. as part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. these service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. we may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our peo business. many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the co-employment relationship within our peo business. state and federal positions regarding co-employment relationships are in a constant state of flux and changed with varying degrees of impact on our operations. we cannot predict when changes will occur or forecast whether any future changes will be favorable or unfavorable to our operations. there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. although our agreements with clients provide that they will indemnify us for any liability attributable to their own or their employees' conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. in addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the employer under any applicable state or federal laws. incurring additional liabilities related to our peo business may adversely affect our results of operations. we may be adversely impacted by changes in health insurance and workers' compensation rates and underlying claims trends. within our peo business, we maintain health and workers' compensation insurance covering worksite employees. the insurance costs are impacted by claims experience and are a significant portion of our peo costs. if we experience a sudden or unexpected increase in claims activity, our costs could increase. in addition, in the event of expiration or cancellation of existing contracts, we may not be able to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms. also, as a co-employer in the peo, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities associated with health care reform, which may result in increased costs. increases in costs not incorporated into service fees timely or fully could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. incorporating cost increases into service fees could also impact our ability to attract and retain clients. our clients could have insufficient funds to cover payments we made on their behalf, resulting in financial loss to us. as part of our payroll processing service, we are authorized by our clients to transfer money from their accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and various taxing authorities. it is possible that we could be held liable for such amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover them. we have in the past, and may in the future, make payments on our clients' behalf for which we may not be reimbursed, resulting in loss to us. if a significant number of our clients are unable to cover payments we make on their behalf, our results of operations will be materially adversely impacted. 12 table of contents our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance. we receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies could adversely impact interest income. we may be adversely impacted by volatility in the political and economic environment. trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and variability. these conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. in addition, new business formation may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. we invest our funds held for clients in high quality, investment-grade marketable securities, money markets, and other cash equivalents. however, these funds held for clients are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. these risks may be exacerbated during periods of unusual financial market volatility. the interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. in addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. if we sell available-for-sale securities to satisfy short-term funding requirements, we may recognize losses, which would reduce the interest income earned on funds held for clients. constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. historically, we have periodically borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet short-term liquidity needs. however, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. growth in services for funding payrolls of our clients in the temporary staffing industry may be constricted if access to financing becomes limited. in addition, our ability to grow through significant acquisitions may be limited. see also item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. if all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we made and may continue to make acquisitions that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities, and difficulties in integrating operations. successful integration involves many challenges, including the difficulty of developing and marketing new products and services, our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the loss of key employees of an acquired business. the integration and conversion of our acquired operations or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating these businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process. in addition, an acquisition could adversely impact cash flows and/or operating results, and dilute stockholder interests, for many reasons, including charges to our income to reflect the impairment of acquired intangible assets including goodwill, interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred in connection with an acquisition, and any issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition or new business venture that dilutes or lessens the rights of our current stockholders. if the integration of any or all of our acquisitions or future acquisitions is not successful, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that may constrain the operation of our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition . the note purchase and guarantee agreement (the agreement ) that we entered into in january 2019 in connection with our acquisition of oasis, contains covenants which may restrict our flexibility to operate our business. these covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and indebtedness, substantial changes in the general nature of our business and our subsidiaries (taken as a whole), certain merger transactions, certain sales of assets and other matters, all subject to certain exceptions. the agreement also contains financial covenants, which are reviewed for compliance on a quarterly basis, that require us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 3.50:1.00 and a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.00:1.00. in addition, certain of our indebtedness may not exceed 20% of our consolidated stockholders' equity. if we do not comply with these covenants, it could result in material adverse effects on our operating results and our financial condition. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified people, which could impact the quality of our services and customer satisfaction. our success, growth, and financial results depend in part on our continuing ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified people at all levels, including management, technical, compliance, and sales personnel. competition for these individuals can be intense, and we may not be able to retain our key people, or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly-qualified individuals in the future, which could harm our future success. 13 table of contents failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to do so effectively in all cases. our intellectual property could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyberattack or other wrongful conduct by employees or third-parties. to the extent that our intellectual property is not protected effectively by trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other means, other parties with knowledge of our intellectual property, including former employees, may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own and others' advantage. competitors may also misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights or duplicate our technology and products. any significant impairment or misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information could harm our business and our brand and may adversely affect our ability to compete. third-parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. to the extent we seek to enforce or must defend our intellectual property rights with litigation, we could incur significant expenses and/or be required to pay substantial damages. we may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or vendors in connection with claims or litigation. the litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming. in the event we receive negative publicity, our reputation and the value of our brand could be harmed, and clients may not use our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. negative publicity relating to events or activities attributed to us, our corporate employees, or others associated with us, whether or not justified, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. if we are unable to maintain quality hcm and employee benefit-related solutions and peo and insurance solutions, our reputation with our clients may be harmed and the value of our brand may diminish. in addition, if our brand is negatively impacted, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, including challenges retaining clients or attracting new clients and recruiting talent and retaining employees. we are involved in litigation from time to time arising from the operation of our business and, as such, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees, or other costs. we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees, or other third-parties for various actions. from time to time, we are involved in litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract, tortious conduct, and employment and labor law matters. the damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings could be substantial. although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk : refer to the market risk factors section contained in item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on this type of risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. if all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we made and may continue to make acquisitions that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities, and difficulties in integrating operations. successful integration involves many challenges, including the difficulty of developing and marketing new products and services, our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the loss of key employees of an acquired business. the integration and conversion of our acquired operations or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating these businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process. in addition, an acquisition could adversely impact cash flows and/or operating results, and dilute stockholder interests, for many reasons, including charges to our income to reflect the impairment of acquired intangible assets including goodwill, interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred in connection with an acquisition, and any issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition or new business venture that dilutes or lessens the rights of our current stockholders. if the integration of any or all of our acquisitions or future acquisitions is not successful, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that may constrain the operation of our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition . the note purchase and guarantee agreement (the agreement ) that we entered into in january 2019 in connection with our acquisition of oasis, contains covenants which may restrict our flexibility to operate our business. these covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and indebtedness, substantial changes in the general nature of our business and our subsidiaries (taken as a whole), certain merger transactions, certain sales of assets and other matters, all subject to certain exceptions. the agreement also contains financial covenants, which are reviewed for compliance on a quarterly basis, that require us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 3.50:1.00 and a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.00:1.00. in addition, certain of our indebtedness may not exceed 20% of our consolidated stockholders' equity. if we do not comply with these covenants, it could result in material adverse effects on our operating results and our financial condition. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified people, which could impact the quality of our services and customer satisfaction. our success, growth, and financial results depend in part on our continuing ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified people at all levels, including management, technical, compliance, and sales personnel. competition for these individuals can be intense, and we may not be able to retain our key people, or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly-qualified individuals in the future, which could harm our future success. 13 table of contents failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to do so effectively in all cases. our intellectual property could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyberattack or other wrongful conduct by employees or third-parties. to the extent that our intellectual property is not protected effectively by trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other means, other parties with knowledge of our intellectual property, including former employees, may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own and others' advantage. competitors may also misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights or duplicate our technology and products. any significant impairment or misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information could harm our business and our brand and may adversely affect our ability to compete. third-parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. to the extent we seek to enforce or must defend our intellectual property rights with litigation, we could incur significant expenses and/or be required to pay substantial damages. we may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or vendors in connection with claims or litigation. the litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming. in the event we receive negative publicity, our reputation and the value of our brand could be harmed, and clients may not use our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. negative publicity relating to events or activities attributed to us, our corporate employees, or others associated with us, whether or not justified, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. if we are unable to maintain quality hcm and employee benefit-related solutions and peo and insurance solutions, our reputation with our clients may be harmed and the value of our brand may diminish. in addition, if our brand is negatively impacted, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, including challenges retaining clients or attracting new clients and recruiting talent and retaining employees. we are involved in litigation from time to time arising from the operation of our business and, as such, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees, or other costs. we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees, or other third-parties for various actions. from time to time, we are involved in litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract, tortious conduct, and employment and labor law matters. the damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings could be substantial. although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk : refer to the market risk factors section contained in item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on this type of risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. item 1b. unr esolved staff comments none. 14 table of contents it em 2. properties we owned and leased the following properties as of may 31, 2020: square feet owned facilities: rochester, new york 1,012,000 other u.s. locations 65,000 international locations 13,000 total owned facilities 1,090,000 leased facilities: rochester, new york 97,000 other u.s. locations 1,937,000 international locations 86,000 total leased facilities 2,120,000 our facilities in rochester, new york house various distribution, processing, and technology functions, certain ancillary functions, a telemarketing unit, and other back-office functions. facilities outside of rochester, new york are in various locations throughout the u.s. and house our service centers, fulfillment centers and sales functions. our international locations primarily house our european operations in denmark and germany and a location in india houses information technology, service, and sales support functions. we believe that adequate, suitable lease space will continue to be available to meet our needs. ite m 3. legal proceedings we are subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of our business. these include disputes or potential disputes related to breach of contract, tort, employment-related claims, tax claims, patent, statutory, and other matters. our management currently believes that resolution of outstanding legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. however, legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on the company's financial position and the results of operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded. it em 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. p art ii it em 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities our common stock trades on the nasdaq global select market under the symbol payx . dividends have historically been paid on our common stock in august, november, february, and may. the level and continuation of future dividends are dependent on our future earnings and cash flows and are subject to the discretion of our board of directors (the board ). as of june 30, 2020, there were 10,075 holders of record of our common stock, which includes registered holders and participants in the paychex, inc. dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan. there were also 4,031 participants in the paychex, inc. qualified employee stock purchase plan and 4,393 participants in the paychex, inc. employee stock ownership plan. 15 table of contents in may 2019, our board approved a program to repurchase up to $400.0 million of our common stock with authorization expiring in may 2022. all shares repurchased during fiscal 2020 were retired and were as follows: in millions, except per share amount total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total dollars approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program first quarter 2.0 $ 84.68 $ 171.9 $ 228.1 second quarter $ $ 228.1 third quarter $ $ 228.1 march 1 to march 31, 2020 $ $ 228.1 april 1 to april 30, 2020 $ $ 228.1 may 1 to may 31, 2020 $ $ 228.1 fiscal year 2.0 $ 84.68 $ 171.9 the following graph shows a five-year comparison of the total cumulative returns of investing $100 on may 31, 2015, in paychex common stock, the s&amp;p 500 index, and a peer group index. all comparisons of stock price performance shown assume reinvestment of dividends. we are a participant in the s&amp;p 500 index, a market group of companies with a larger than average market capitalization. our peer group is a group of companies with comparable revenue and net income, who are in a comparable industry, or who are direct competitors of paychex (as detailed below). may 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 paychex $100.00 $113.56 $128.03 $146.48 $197.81 $172.03 s&amp;p 500 $100.00 $101.72 $119.48 $136.67 $141.84 $160.05 peer group - old $100.00 $102.63 $120.62 $155.74 $177.20 $193.26 peer group - new $100.00 $105.21 $124.50 $158.25 $185.85 $204.80 there can be no assurance that our stock performance will continue with the same or similar trends depicted in the graph above. we neither make nor endorse any predictions as to future stock performance. 16 table of contents the governance &amp; compensation committee of our board annually reviews and approves the selection of peer group companies, adjusting the group from year to year based upon our business and changes in the peer group companies' business or the comparability of their metrics. the peer group may also be adjusted in the event of mergers, acquisitions, or other significant economic changes. the peer group was adjusted for fiscal 2020. dst systems, inc. and robert half international, inc. were removed and replaced with ihs markit ltd. and worldpay, inc., as they are more closely aligned with the paychex business. both the old and new peer groups are presented for this year of transition. our new peer group for fiscal 2020 is comprised of the following companies: alliance data systems corporation ihs markit, ltd. automatic data processing, inc. (direct competitor) intuit inc. broadridge financial solutions, inc. moody's corporation the dun &amp; bradstreet corporation td ameritrade holding corporation equifax, inc. total systems services, inc. fiserv, inc. the western union company global payments inc. worldpay, inc. h&amp;r block, inc. 17 table of contents ite m 6. selected financial data in millions, except per share amounts year ended may 31, 2020 (1) 2019 (1) 2018 (1),(2),(3) 2017 (1) 2016 (4) service revenue $ 3,953.6 $ 3,691.9 $ 3,314.2 $ 3,102.4 $ 2,905.8 interest on funds held for clients 86.9 80.6 63.5 50.6 46.1 total revenue $ 4,040.5 $ 3,772.5 $ 3,377.7 $ 3,153.0 $ 2,951.9 operating income $ 1,460.5 $ 1,371.3 $ 1,291.5 $ 1,253.9 $ 1,146.6 net income $ 1,098.1 $ 1,034.4 $ 994.1 $ 826.3 $ 756.8 basic earnings per share $ 3.06 $ 2.88 $ 2.77 $ 2.30 $ 2.10 diluted earnings per share $ 3.04 $ 2.86 $ 2.75 $ 2.28 $ 2.09 cash dividends per common share $ 2.48 $ 2.30 $ 2.06 $ 1.84 $ 1.68 purchases of property and equipment $ 127.0 $ 123.8 $ 154.0 $ 94.3 $ 97.7 cash, restricted cash, and total corporate investments $ 1,013.7 $ 779.9 $ 719.7 $ 777.4 $ 793.2 total assets $ 8,550.7 $ 8,676.0 $ 7,915.4 $ 7,280.8 $ 6,440.8 total debt $ 801.9 $ 796.4 $ $ $ stockholders' equity $ 2,781.4 $ 2,619.5 $ 2,356.8 $ 2,227.2 $ 1,911.7 return on stockholders' equity 41 % 42 % 44 % 39 % 40 % (1) in fiscal 2017, we early-adopted new accounting guidance related to employee stock-based compensation payments. as a result, a discrete tax benefit was recognized upon exercise or lapse of stock-based awards. this discrete tax benefit increased diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.04 per diluted share, $0.02 per diluted share, $0.04 per diluted share, and $0.05 per diluted share for fiscal 2020, fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, and fiscal 2017, respectively. (2) in fiscal 2018, the enactment of the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) significantly impacted our net income, basic and diluted earnings per share, and return on stockholders' equity . refer to item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, of this form 10-k for additional discussion of the impact of the tax act. (3) in fiscal 2018, an additional expense and corresponding tax benefit was recognized as a result of the termination of certain license agreements. refer to item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this form 10-k for additional discussion of the impact of the termination of certain license agreements. (4) in the fiscal year ended may 31, 2016 ( fiscal 2016 ), a net tax benefit was recorded for income derived in prior tax years from customer-facing software we produced. this net tax benefit increased diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.06 per diluted share. 18 table of contents ite m 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations reviews the operating results of paychex, inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries ( paychex, the company, we, our, or us ) for each of the three fiscal years ended may 31, 2020 ( fiscal 2020 or the fiscal year ), may 31, 2019 ( fiscal 2019 ), and may 31, 2018 ( fiscal 2018 ), and our financial condition as of may 31, 2020. this review should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and the related notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k ( form 10-k ) and the risk factors discussed in item 1a of this form 10-k. forward-looking statements in this review are qualified by the cautionary statement under the heading cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements pursuant to the united states private securities litigation reform act of 1995 contained at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. overview we are a leading provider of integrated human capital management ( hcm ) solutions for human resources ( hr ), payroll, benefits, and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses. within our hcm solutions, we offer a comprehensive portfolio of services and products that allow our clients to meet their diverse hr and payroll needs. we support our small-business clients, reducing the complexity and risk of running their own payroll, while ensuring greater accuracy with up-to-date tax rates and regulatory information. clients may choose to have our service team handle everything for them, or process payroll themselves utilizing our proprietary, robust, software-as-a-service ( saas ) paychex flex platform and our surepayroll saas-based products. our mid-market clients generally have more complex payroll and employee benefit needs. however, in the current environment of increasing regulations, we believe the needs for hr outsourcing solutions have been moving down-market. any of our clients using paychex flex can opt for the integrated suite of hcm solutions, which allows clients to choose the services and software that will meet the needs of their business. our portfolio of hcm and employee benefit-related services is disaggregated into two categories, management solutions and professional employer organization ( peo ) and insurance solutions, as discussed in part 1, item 1 of this form 10-k. our mission is to be the leading provider of hr, payroll, benefits, and insurance solutions by being an essential partner to small and medium-sized businesses across the u.s. and parts of europe. we believe that success in this mission will lead to strong, long-term financial performance. our strategy focuses on providing industry-leading, integrated technology; increasing client satisfaction; expanding our leadership in hr; growing our client base; and engaging in strategic acquisitions. we continue to focus on driving growth in the number of clients, revenue per client, total revenue and profits, while providing industry-leading service and technology solutions to our clients and their employees. we maintain industry-leading margins by managing our personnel costs and expenses while continuing to invest in our business, particularly in leading-edge technology. we believe these investments are critical to our success. looking to the future, we believe that investing in our products, people, and service capabilities will position us to capitalize on opportunities for long-term growth. effective december 20, 2018, the company acquired oasis outsourcing group holdings, l.p. ( oasis ). upon closing, oasis became a wholly owned subsidiary of the company. oasis is an industry leader in providing hr outsourcing services. the purchase price was $992.2 million, net of $262.3 million in cash acquired, including $132.1 million of restricted cash. the acquisition was financed through a combination of cash on hand and the issuance of long-term private placement debt totaling $800.0 million. fiscal 2020 financial highlights financial highlights for fiscal 2020, compared to fiscal 2019, are as follows: total revenue increased 7% to $4.0 billion. oasis contributed approximately 4% to the growth in total revenue. operating income increased 7% to $1.5 billion. net income increased 6% to $1.1 billion. adjusted net income (1) increased 5% to $1.1 billion. diluted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share (1) both increased 6% to $3.04 per share and $3.00 per share, respectively. dividends of $889.4 million were paid to stockholders, representing approximately 81% of net income. (1) adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share are not u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) measures. refer to the non-gaap financial measures section of this item 7 for a discussion of these non-gaap measures and a reconciliation to the most comparable u.s. gaap measures of net income and diluted earnings per share. 19 table of contents for further analysis of our results of operations for fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018, and our financial position as of may 31, 2020, refer to the tables and analysis in the results of operations and liquidity and capital resources sections of this item 7. in march 2020, the world health organization declared the outbreak of covid-19 as a pandemic. the covid-19 pandemic affected our business, our customers' businesses, and the markets we serve during the three months ended may 31, 2020 (the fourth quarter ). see the covid-19 response section of this item 7 for further discussion on the impact of covid-19 on our results of operations along with our response to the pandemic. business outlook our payroll and peo client base, including all acquisitions, was greater than 680,000 and approximately 670,000 clients as of may 31, 2020 and may 31, 2019, respectively, and greater than 650,000 clients as of may 31, 2018. client retention was at record levels of over 83% of the beginning client base for fiscal 2020. client retention was over 82% for fiscal 2019 and approximately 81% of the beginning client base for fiscal 2018. while our hr product offerings provide services to employers and employees beyond payroll, they effectively leverage payroll processing data. these services are included as part of the integrated hcm solution within paychex flex or provided through the prism hr peo platform. the following table illustrates the growth in selected hr product offerings: $ in billions as of may 31, 2020 change (1) 2019 change (1) 2018 paychex hr solutions and peo client worksite employees (2) 1,428,000 (4) % 1,491,000 29 % 1,157,000 paychex hr solutions and peo clients 55,000 7 % 52,000 26 % 41,000 health and benefits services applicants 182,000 (4) % 189,000 7 % 177,000 retirement services plans 91,000 4 % 87,000 6 % 82,000 asset value of retirement services participants' funds $ 32.3 4 % $ 31.0 1 % $ 30.6 (1) percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. (2) oasis is included in the total number of worksite employees and clients for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019. concentrated effort remains on the continued enhancements of paychex flex, our robust, cloud-based hcm software solutions platform, which allows direct client access to hr, payroll, and benefits information in a streamlined and integrated approach to workplace management. in fiscal 2020, we continued to focus on enhancing the value to clients, including new offerings and enhancements to paychex flex as follows: paychex integrations enabling users to connect paychex flex with some of the world's leading hr, accounting, point-of-sale, and productivity applications on the market; smartwatch solution, which enables users to track time worked via their smartwatch; pay-on-demand, which provides participating customer employees the option to request access to a portion of earned pay before the scheduled pay date; real-time payments, which provides employers an efficient way to instantly pay their employees for time worked; help center, which provides users access to training resources and how-to tutorials in written, video, and tour-like deliverables; enhancements to flex assistant, that provides a user with an in-app learning journey that aligns with their preferences as a verbal, visual, or physical learner and offers written how-to documents, tutorial-style video vignettes, or a guided interactive tour from in-app step-by-step messaging; document management was enhanced to add electronic signature capabilities and the ability for customers to run on-demand reports that show the entire process, from initial log-in through signature event; hr conversations, a new tool that enables managers, employees, and hr staff to collaborate and capture day-to-day interactions; and other enhancements including, grid entry view capabilities and the ability for employees and administrative users to create a custom dashboard. 20 table of contents we continue to strengthen our position in the industry by serving as a source of education and information to clients, businesses of all sizes, and other interested parties. we provide free webinars, white papers, and other information on our website to aid existing and prospective clients with the impact of regulatory changes. the paychex insurance agency, inc. website, www.paychex.com/group-health-insurance , helps small-business owners navigate the area of insurance coverage. both this website and www.paychex.com/worx have sections dedicated to the topic of health care reform. covid-19 response in march 2020, the world health organization declared the outbreak of covid-19 as a pandemic. the covid-19 pandemic began affecting our operations and employees, our customers' businesses, and the markets we serve in the three months ended may 31, 2020 (the fourth quarter ). the health and safety of our employees remains our top priority. we were expedient with the implementation of our business continuity plan, which included moving 95% of our workforce to work remotely and restricting unnecessary travel. results of operations for the fourth quarter were adversely impacted by the covid-19 pandemic as businesses suspended operations. management solutions revenue was impacted by a decline in check volumes, partially offset by increased penetration of retirement services and time and attendance services. the decline in check volumes was due to a reduction in the number of clients processing payrolls as well as the number of employees paid due to state and regional shutdowns. peo and insurance solutions revenue was impacted by a decline in the number of worksite employees serviced by our existing clients. insurance solutions revenue was impacted by a decrease in the number of health and benefit applicants and a decline in workers' compensation premiums. since the end of april, we have seen sequential improvement in our key business metrics across our lines of business. as our clients continue to manage through the covid-19 pandemic, our priority remains helping them keep their businesses open and return to more normal operations. our blend of technology and service provides valuable tools and resources to assist our clients and their employees during this critical time. the technology investments we made to our paychex flex payroll and human resources suite of products positioned us to service our clients and support them in managing a remote workforce. we created a covid-19 help center on our website to assist our clients and provide them with the support and resources they need, including: webinars and white papers with information on the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act, including the historic ppp, and families first coronavirus response act; guidance on the small business administration ( sba ) loan and debt relief process, interactive ppp loan estimation tool for businesses who are considering or have received funding through the sba program; and state-by-state resources to help our clients understand specific directives that may impact their business. the covid-19 help center also provides resources to our key business partners, including accountants, financial institutions, financial advisors, and national associations. the covid-19 help center has been translated into spanish to serve our spanish-speaking clients. our strong balance sheet and operational flexibility allowed us to successfully manage through the initial impact of covid-19 while protecting our cash flow and liquidity. we will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of future changes to market and economic conditions related to covid-19 and will assess the potential impact to our business and financial position. we expect to take a cautious approach to modifying our office and travel restrictions and will wait until we have a clearer vision on how the pandemic unfolds and utilizing guidance provided by the federal, state, and local governments. for further information on the risks posed to our business from the covid-19 pandemic, refer to item 1a of this form 10-k. 21 table of contents results of operations summary of results of operations for fiscal years: in millions, except per share amounts 2020 change (1) 2019 change (1) 2018 revenue: management solutions $ 2,963.0 3 % $ 2,877.7 4 % $ 2,758.4 peo and insurance solutions 990.6 22 % 814.2 46 % 555.8 total service revenue 3,953.6 7 % 3,691.9 11 % 3,314.2 interest on funds held for clients 86.9 8 % 80.6 27 % 63.5 total revenue 4,040.5 7 % 3,772.5 12 % 3,377.7 total expenses 2,580.0 7 % 2,401.2 15 % 2,086.2 operating income 1,460.5 7 % 1,371.3 6 % 1,291.5 other (expense)/income, net (23.4) n/m (3.3) n/m 8.6 income before income taxes 1,437.1 5 % 1,368.0 5 % 1,300.1 income taxes 339.0 2 % 333.6 9 % 306.0 effective income tax rate 23.6 % 24.4 % 23.5 % net income $ 1,098.1 6 % $ 1,034.4 4 % $ 994.1 diluted earnings per share $ 3.04 6 % $ 2.86 4 % $ 2.75 (1) percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. n/m not meaningful we invest in highly liquid, investment-grade fixed income securities and do not utilize derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk. as of may 31, 2020, we had no exposure to high-risk or non-liquid investments. details regarding our combined funds held for clients and corporate cash equivalents and investment portfolios are as follows: year ended may 31, $ in millions 2020 2019 2018 average investment balances: funds held for clients $ 3,931.3 $ 3,969.7 $ 4,040.8 corporate cash equivalents and investments 870.7 848.4 915.1 total $ 4,802.0 $ 4,818.1 $ 4,955.9 average interest rates earned (exclusive of net realized gains): funds held for clients 1.9 % 2.0 % 1.6 % corporate cash equivalents and investments 1.4 % 1.6 % 1.3 % combined funds held for clients and corporate cash equivalents and investments 1.8 % 1.9 % 1.5 % total net realized gains $ 11.3 $ $ 0.1 $ in millions as of may 31, 2020 2019 2018 net unrealized gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities (1) $ 100.0 $ 19.7 $ (38.3) federal funds rate (2) 0.25 % 2.50 % 1.75 % total fair value of available-for-sale securities $ 2,757.2 $ 3,620.8 $ 3,104.8 weighted-average duration of available-for-sale securities in years (3) 2.9 2.9 3.1 weighted-average yield-to-maturity of available-for-sale securities (3) 2.1 % 2.1 % 1.9 % (1) the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios was approximately $112.4 million as of july 15, 2020 . (2) the federal funds rate was in the range of 0.0% to 0.25% as of may 31, 2020, in the range of 2.25% to 2.50% as of may 31, 2019, and in the range of 1.50% to 1.75% as of may 31, 2018 . (3) these items exclude the impact of variable rate demand notes ( vrdns ), as they are tied to short-term interest rates. 22 table of contents management solutions revenue: management solutions revenue was $3.0 billion for fiscal 2020 and $2.9 billion for fiscal 2019, reflecting growth of 3% and 4%, respectively, compared to the prior fiscal year periods. both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 benefited from increases in our client base and growth in revenue per client, which improved as a result of higher price realization and increased penetration of our suite of solutions, particularly hr outsourcing, retirement services, and time and attendance. retirement services revenue growth for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 benefited from an increase in the number of retirement services plans, along with an increase in revenue earned on the asset value of participants' 401(k) funds. peo and insurance solutions revenue: peo and insurance solutions revenue was $990.6 million for fiscal 2020 and $814.2 million for fiscal 2019, reflecting growth of 22% and 46%, respectively, compared to the prior fiscal year periods. in addition to the acquisition of oasis, peo and insurance solutions revenue growth in fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 was driven by growth in clients across our peo business. in addition, for fiscal 2019, peo and insurance solutions revenue growth was driven by growth in client worksite employees across our peo business. insurance solutions revenue for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 benefited from an increase in the number of health and benefit clients, offset by declining rates in the workers' compensation market. in addition, for fiscal 2019, insurance solutions revenue was impacted by an increase in the number of health and benefit applicants. interest on funds held for clients: interest on funds held for clients increased 8% for fiscal 2020 and 27% for fiscal 2019 to $86.9 million and $80.6 million, respectively. for fiscal 2020 the increase was due to higher realized gains, offset by lower average investment balances and average interest rates. the realized gains primarily resulted from the strategic repositioning of our client fund portfolio to enhance liquidity in response to the uncertainty caused by covid-19. for fiscal 2019, the increase was primarily due to higher average interest rates earned. average investment balances for funds held for clients decreased approximately 1% and 2% for fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, respectively. for fiscal 2020, funds held for clients average investment balances were impacted by lower client fund collections due to covid-19 and changes in client base mix, offset by wage inflation and timing of collections and remittances. for fiscal 2019, the decrease in average investment balances for funds held for clients was primarily driven by the impact of lower client withholdings as a result of the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ), and changes in client base mix, partially offset by the impact of wage inflation. refer to the market risk factors section contained in item 7a of this form 10-k for more information on changing interest rates. total expenses: total expenses increased 7% and 15% for fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, respectively, compared to the prior fiscal year periods. the following table summarizes total combined cost of service revenue and selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal years: in millions 2020 change (1) 2019 change (1) 2018 compensation-related expenses $ 1,480.8 6 % $ 1,396.8 13 % $ 1,235.2 depreciation and amortization 209.7 16 % 181.5 32 % 138.0 peo insurance costs 334.7 17 % 286.7 40 % 205.2 other expenses 554.8 3 % 536.2 6 % 507.8 total expenses $ 2,580.0 7 % $ 2,401.2 15 % $ 2,086.2 (1) percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. compensation-related expenses increased 6% for fiscal 2020 and 13% for fiscal 2019. for fiscal 2020, the increases in compensation-related expenses were driven by the acquisition of oasis, increased headcount, and higher wages, offset by a decrease in performance-based pay. for fiscal 2019, the increases in compensation-related expenses were driven by the acquisition of oasis, increased headcount, higher wages, and an increase in performance-based pay. as of may 31, 2020, we had approximately 15,800 employees compared with 15,600 employees as of may 31, 2019. depreciation expense is primarily related to buildings, furniture and fixtures, data processing equipment, and both purchased and internally developed software. amortization of intangible assets is primarily related to client list acquisitions. the growth in depreciation and amortization for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, were primarily driven by the amortization of acquired oasis intangible assets. 23 table of contents peo insurance costs include workers' compensation, minimum premium medical insurance plan arrangements, and self-insured dental and vision plans where we retain risk. the acquisition of oasis, along with the growth in our peo business, contributed to the increase in peo insurance costs for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019. in addition, the acquisition of hr outsourcing holdings, inc. ( hroi ) contributed to the increase in peo insurance costs for fiscal 2019. other expenses include items such as non-capital equipment, delivery, forms and supplies, communications, travel and entertainment, professional services, and other costs incurred to support our business. other expense growth for fiscal 2020 was impacted by the acquisition of oasis and by continued investment in product development and supporting technology, tempered by the impact of covid-19 in the fourth quarter which drove decreases in other selling, general and administrative expenses, including travel and entertainment. the increase in other expenses for fiscal 2019 was impacted by the acquisitions of oasis and hroi and continued investment in product development and supporting technology. other expenses for fiscal 2018 included a one-time expense of $32.6 million related to the termination of certain license agreements. operating income: operating income increased 7% to $1.5 billion for fiscal 2020 and 6% to $1.4 billion for fiscal 2019. operating margin (operating income, as a percentage of total revenue), was 36.1%, 36.3%, and 38.2% for fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. adjusted operating income (1) increased 7% to $1.5 billion for fiscal 2020 and 4% to $1.4 billion for fiscal 2019. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ( ebitda ) (1) increased 8% to $1.7 billion for fiscal 2020 and 9% to $1.6 billion for fiscal 2019. ebitda margin (1) was 41.4%, 41.2%, and 42.3% for fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively . (1) adjusted operating income, ebitda and ebitda margin are not u.s. gaap measures. refer to the non-gaap financial measures section within the results of operations section of this item 7 for a discussion of these non-gaap measures and a reconciliation to the most comparable u.s. gaap measures of operating income and net income. other (expense)/income, net: other (expense)/income, net, primarily represents interest expense incurred on our debt instruments, netted against earnings from our corporate cash and cash equivalents and investments in available-for-sale securities. we recognized $23.4 million and $3.3 million of other expense, net in fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, respectively, which was driven by interest expense related to our long-term borrowings. other expense, net included $33.3 million and $13.7 million of interest expense related to our long-term borrowings in fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, respectively. income taxes: our effective income tax rate was 23.6% for fiscal 2020, 24.4% for fiscal 2019, and 23.5% for fiscal 2018. the effective income tax rates in all periods were impacted by recognition of net discrete tax benefits related to employee stock-based compensation payments. in fiscal 2019, the effective income tax rate included discrete tax expense for changes in tax reserves and the revaluation of deferred tax balances for legislative updates. in fiscal 2018, as a result of the tax act, we recorded a non-recurring net tax benefit for the revaluation of our net deferred tax liabilities. this amount impacted diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.23 per diluted share for fiscal 2018. additional discrete tax items recognized during each respective period are insignificant. refer to note l of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for additional disclosures on income taxes. net income and diluted earnings per share: net income increased 6% to $1.1 billion for fiscal 2020 and 4% to $1.0 billion for fiscal 2019. diluted earnings per share increased 6% to $3.04 per diluted share for fiscal 2020 and 4% to $2.86 per diluted share for fiscal 2019. adjusted net income increased 5% to $1.1 billion for fiscal 2020 and increased 11% to $1.0 billion for fiscal 2019. adjusted diluted earnings per share was $3.00 per diluted share for fiscal 2020 and $2.84 per diluted share for fiscal 2019, reflecting increases of 6% and 11%, respectively. refer to the non-gaap financial measures section that follows for a discussion of these non-gaap measures. 24 table of contents non-gaap financial measures: a djusted operating income, adjusted net income, adjusted diluted earnings per share and ebitda are summarized as follows: $ in millions 2020 change 2019 change 2018 operating income $ 1,460.5 7 % $ 1,371.3 6 % $ 1,291.5 non-gaap adjustments: termination of license agreements (1) 32.6 total non-gaap adjustments 32.6 adjusted operating income $ 1,460.5 7 % $ 1,371.3 4 % $ 1,324.1 net income $ 1,098.1 6 % $ 1,034.4 4 % $ 994.1 non-gaap adjustments: excess tax benefit related to employee stock-based compensation payments (2) (14.9) (8.3) (12.9) revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities (3) 1.7 (83.5) termination of license agreements (1) 24.7 total non-gaap adjustments (14.9) (6.6) (71.7) adjusted net income $ 1,083.2 5 % $ 1,027.8 11 % $ 922.4 diluted earnings per share $ 3.04 6 % $ 2.86 4 % $ 2.75 non-gaap adjustments: excess tax benefit related to employee stock-based compensation payments (2) (0.04) (0.02) (0.04) revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities (3) (0.23) termination of license agreements (1) 0.07 total non-gaap adjustments (0.04) (0.02) (0.20) adjusted diluted earnings per share $ 3.00 6 % $ 2.84 11 % $ 2.55 net income $ 1,098.1 6 % $ 1,034.4 4 % $ 994.1 non-gaap adjustments: interest expense/(income), net 26.5 4.3 (8.0) income taxes 339.0 333.6 306.0 depreciation and amortization expense 209.7 181.5 138.0 total non-gaap adjustments 575.2 519.4 436.0 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) $ 1,673.3 8 % $ 1,553.8 9 % $ 1,430.1 (1) additional expense and corresponding tax benefit recognized as a result of the termination of certain license agreements. this event is not expected to recur. (2) net tax windfall benefits related to employee stock-based compensation payments recognized in income taxes. this item is subject to volatility and will vary based on employee decisions on exercising employee stock options and fluctuations in our stock price, neither of which is within the control of management. (3) for fiscal 2019, this line item represents a one-time tax charge that was recognized during the three months ended august 31, 2018 as a result of updated guidance on internal revenue code section 162(m). this event is not expected to recur. for fiscal 2018, this line item represents non-recurring tax benefits recognized as a result of the tax act related to the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities. in addition to reporting operating income, net income, and diluted earnings per share, which are u.s. gaap measures, we present adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, adjusted diluted earnings per share, ebitda, and ebitda margin (ebitda as a percentage of total revenue), which are non-gaap measures. we believe these additional measures are indicators of our core business operations' performance period over period. adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, adjusted diluted earnings per share, ebitda and ebitda margin are not calculated through the application of u.s. gaap and are not required forms of disclosure by the sec. as such, they should not be considered as a substitute for the u.s. gaap measures of operating income, net income, and diluted earnings per share, and, therefore, should not be used in isolation, but in conjunction with the u.s. gaap measures. the use of any non-gaap measure may produce results that vary from the u.s. gaap measure and may not be comparable to a similarly defined non-gaap measure used by other companies. 25 table of contents liquidity and capital resources our financial position as of may 31, 2020 remained strong with cash, restricted cash, and total corporate investments of $1.0 billion. total short-term and long-term borrowings, net of debt issuance costs were $801.9 million as of may 31, 2020. our primary source of cash is generated by our ongoing operations. cash flows from operations were $1.4 billion for fiscal 2020. our positive cash flows for fiscal 2020 allowed us to support our business and pay substantial dividends. we currently anticipate that cash, restricted cash, and total corporate investments as of may 31, 2020, along with projected operating cash flows and available short-term financing, will support our business operations, capital purchases, share repurchases, and dividend payments for the foreseeable future. we believe that our investments in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2020 were not other-than-temporarily impaired, nor has any event occurred subsequent to that date to indicate any other-than-temporary impairment. financing short-term financing: we maintain committed and unsecured credit facilities and irrevocable letters of credit as part of our normal and recurring business operations. the purpose of these credit facilities is to meet short-term funding requirements, finance working capital needs, and for general corporate purposes. we typically borrow on an overnight or short-term basis on our credit facilities. refer to note n of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for further discussion on our credit facilities. details of our credit facilities are as follows: maximum may 31, 2020 amount outstanding available $ in millions expiration date available amount amount credit facilities: jp morgan chase bank, n.a. ( jpm ) july 31, 2024 $ 1,000.0 $ - $ 1,000.0 jpm august 17, 2022 $ 500.0 - 500.0 pnc bank, national association ( pnc ) february 6, 2023 $ 250.0 5.1 244.9 total lines of credit outstanding and available $ 5.1 $ 1,744.9 details of borrowings under each credit facility during the fiscal years ended 2020, 2019, and 2018 were as follows: year ended may 31, 2020 credit facility $1 billion $500 million $250 million $ in millions jpm jpm pnc number of days borrowed 17 29 362 maximum amount borrowed $ 694.0 $ 450.0 $ 246.0 weighted-average amount borrowed $ 343.2 $ 307.8 $ 54.2 weighted-average interest rate 5.06 % 3.30 % 2.50 % year ended may 31, 2019 credit facility $1 billion $500 million $150 million $ in millions jpm jpm pnc number of days borrowed 95 92 359 maximum amount borrowed $ 483.0 $ 400.0 $ 58.9 weighted-average amount borrowed $ 387.7 $ 375.6 $ 56.1 weighted-average interest rate 3.64 % 3.55 % 2.81 % 26 table of contents year ended may 31, 2018 credit facility $1 billion $500 million $150 million $ in millions jpm jpm pnc number of days borrowed 22 42 358 maximum amount borrowed $ 700.0 $ 400.0 $ 59.9 weighted-average amount borrowed $ 319.1 $ 144.8 $ 57.2 weighted-average interest rate 4.27 % 2.80 % 1.94 % short-term borrowings are primarily used for the settlement of client fund obligations, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have been invested in available-for-sale securities allocated to our long-term portfolio. subsequent to may 31, 2020, we borrowed twice on an overnight basis, $89.5 million on a weighted-average basis under our pnc credit facility. we expect to have access to the amounts available under our current credit facilities as needed to meet our ongoing financial needs. however, if we experience reductions in our operating cash flows due to any of the risk factors outlined in, but not limited to, item 1a in this form 10-k and other sec filings, including any impacts related to covid-19, we may need to adjust our capital, operating and other discretionary spending to realign our working capital requirements with the capital resources available to us. additionally, if we determined the need for additional short-term liquidity, there is no assurance that such financing, if pursued and obtained, would be adequate or on terms acceptable to us. letters of credit: as of may 31, 2020, we had irrevocable standby letters of credit available totaling $147.9 million, required to secure commitments for certain insurance policies. the letters of credit expire at various dates between june 2020 and january 2022. no amounts were outstanding on these letters of credit during fiscal 2020 or as of may 31, 2020. subsequent to may 31, 2020, letters of credit expiring in june and july 2020 were renewed through june and july 2021, respectively. long-term financing: on march 13, 2019, we borrowed $800.0 million through the issuance of long-term private placement debt. certain information related to the senior notes are as follows: certain information related to the senior notes are as follows: senior notes senior notes series a series b stated interest rate 4.07% 4.25% effective interest rate 4.16% 4.32% interest rate type fixed fixed interest payment dates semi-annual, in arrears semi-annual, in arrears principal payment dates march 13, 2026 march 13, 2029 note type unsecured unsecured refer to note o of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for further discussion on our long-term financing. other commitments: the following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of may 31, 2020: payments due by period less than more than in millions total 1 year 1-3 years 4-5 years 5 years operating leases (1) $ 140.9 $ 39.4 $ 55.3 $ 32.4 $ 13.8 purchase obligations (2) 132.4 74.3 51.0 7.1 workers&apos; compensation estimated obligations 174.2 72.2 48.4 16.7 36.9 debt service obligations (3) 1,050.8 33.3 66.6 66.6 884.3 total $ 1,498.3 $ 219.2 $ 221.3 $ 122.8 $ 935.0 (1) operating leases are primarily for office space and equipment used in our service, fulfillment, and sales operations. (2) purchase obligations include our estimate of the minimum outstanding commitments under purchase orders to buy goods and services and legally binding contractual arrangements with future payment obligations. included in the total purchase obligations is $5.0 million of commitments to purchase capital assets. amounts actually paid under certain of these arrangements may be different due to variable components of these agreements. (3) includes principal and interest payments on our senior notes. refer to note o of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for more information. 27 table of contents the liability for uncertain tax positions, including interest and net of federal benefits, was approximately $26.5 million as of may 31, 2020. refer to note l of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for more information on income taxes. we are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to this liability and have excluded it from the table above. we are involved in two limited partnership agreements to contribute a maximum amount of $20.0 million to venture capital funds in the financial technology sector. as of may 31, 2020, we have contributed approximately $8.4 million of the total funding commitment. the timing of future contributions to be made to these venture capital funds cannot be specifically or reasonably determined and thus have been excluded from the table above. in the normal course of business, we make representations and warranties that guarantee the performance of services under service arrangements with clients. historically, there have been no material losses related to such guarantees. we have also entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, which require us to defend and, if necessary, indemnify these individuals for certain pending or future legal claims as they relate to their services provided to us. we currently self-insure the deductible portion of various insured exposures under certain corporate and peo employee benefit plans. our estimated loss exposure under these insurance arrangements is recorded in other current liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. historically, the amounts accrued have not been material and are not material as of may 31, 2020. we also maintain corporate insurance coverage in addition to our purchased primary insurance policies for gap coverage for employment practices liability, errors and omissions, warranty liability, theft and embezzlement, cyber threats, and acts of terrorism; and capacity for deductibles and self-insured retentions through our captive insurance company. off-balance sheet arrangements as part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions with unconsolidated entities which would have been established for facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other limited purposes. we do maintain investments as a limited partner in both low-income housing projects and venture capital funds focused on the financial technology sector. these are not considered part of our ongoing operations. these investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and represented less than one percent of our total assets as of may 31, 2020. operating, investing, and financing cash flow activities year ended may 31, in millions 2020 2019 2018 net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,440.9 $ 1,271.5 $ 1,276.4 net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities 771.9 (1,628.3) 998.5 net cash used in financing activities (1,488.2) (1,008.5) (423.8) net change in cash, restricted cash, and equivalents $ 724.6 $ (1,365.3) $ 1,851.1 cash dividends per common share $ 2.48 $ 2.30 $ 2.06 operating cash flow activities the changes in our operating cash flows for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 compared to the prior fiscal year periods were due to higher net income, higher non-cash adjustments, and fluctuations in our operating assets and liabilities. the increase in non-cash adjustments for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 were primarily driven by larger adjustments for the amortization of intangible assets. in fiscal 2020, the smaller outflow related to changes in operating assets and liabilities compared to the prior fiscal year period was due to changes in accounts receivable and peo unbilled receivables, which were adversely impacted by covid-19. we experienced an increase in the number of non-processing clients and a reduction in the number of employees and worksite employees paid as businesses suspended operations due to the pandemic. in addition, accounts payable and other current liabilities were impacted by a decrease in accrued compensation related to worksite employees and timing of accruals and cash settlement. in fiscal 2019, the larger outflow was due to higher accounts receivable balances related to growth in our payroll funding business for temporary staffing agency clients. 28 table of contents investing cash flow activities the changes in our investing cash flows for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 compared to prior year periods were primarily attributable to fluctuations in the net purchases and sales/maturities of available-for-sale securities, changes in net cash outflows related to acquisitions of businesses, and purchases of other assets. fluctuations in the net change in purchases and sales/maturities of available-for-sale securities are largely due to timing within the client funds portfolio. the amount will vary based upon the timing of collection from clients, and the related remittance to applicable tax or regulatory agencies for payroll tax administration services and to employees of clients utilizing employee payment services. specific timing impacting cash flows for fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018 are discussed further in the financing cash flows discussion of net changes in client fund obligations. in addition to timing fluctuations, the net change in purchases and sales/maturities of available-for-sale securities for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 compared to prior year periods were due to changes in investment mix. the changes in net cash outflows related to acquisition of businesses reflect our acquisitions of oasis in december 2018, lessor group ( lessor ) in february 2018, and hroi in august 2017. we paid cash for the oasis and lessor acquisitions, while we paid a combination of cash and common stock for the hroi acquisition. the net cash outflow for purchases of other assets during fiscal 2018 was impacted by the resolution of a contractual dispute with certain licensees and the acquisition of rights to certain client lists for approximately $30.0 million. discussion of interest rates and related risks is included in the market risk factors section contained in item 7a of this form 10-k. financing cash flow activities the changes in our financing cash flows for both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 compared to prior fiscal year periods were impacted by net proceeds from long-term borrowings, the net change in client fund obligations, repurchases of common shares, and dividends paid. in fiscal 2019, we borrowed $800.0 million under our jpm credit facilities to fund the acquisition of oasis which was replaced by the issuance of long-term private placement debt in march 2019. refer to note o of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for additional disclosures on our long-term financing. the client fund obligations liability will vary based on the timing of collecting client funds and the related required remittance of funds to applicable tax or regulatory agencies for payroll tax administration services and to employees of clients utilizing employee payment services. collections from clients are typically remitted from one to 30 days after receipt, with some items extending to 90 days. may 31, 2020 fell on a sunday and may 31, 2019 fell on a friday, which is a significant disbursement day for direct pay funds, and as such only created minor timing differences in this liability when comparing fiscal 2020 with fiscal 2019. however, may 31, 2020 balances were impacted by lower client fund collections due to covid-19. in contrast, may 31, 2018 fell on a thursday, which is a significant collection day for direct pay funds. these funds were then paid out on friday june 1, 2018. the increase in dividend payments for fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year periods is primarily due to an 11% and 12% increase in our dividend rate beginning in may 2019 and april 2018, respectively. the payment of future dividends is dependent on our future earnings and cash flow and is subject to the discretion of our board. during fiscal 2020, fiscal 2019, and fiscal 2018, we repurchased 2.0 million shares, 0.7 million shares, and 2.5 million shares, respectively. as of may 31, 2020, $228.1 million remains available under the common stock repurchase program. refer to note c of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for further discussion on our common stock repurchase program. other recently issued accounting pronouncements: refer to note a of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 29 table of contents critical accounting policies note a of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k discusses the significant accounting policies of paychex. our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. on an ongoing basis, we evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. we base our estimates on historical experience, future expectations, and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. actual amounts and results could differ from these estimates. certain accounting policies that are deemed critical to our results of operations or financial position are discussed below. revenue recognition: service revenue is recognized in the period services are rendered and earned under service arrangements with clients where service fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. our service revenue is largely attributable to processing services where the fee is based on a fixed amount per processing period or a fixed amount per processing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed. fees earned for funding of temporary staffing clients' payrolls via purchase of accounts receivable are based on a percentage of funding amounts as specified in the client contract. the revenue earned from delivery service for the distribution of certain client payroll checks and reports is included in service revenue, and the costs for delivery are included in cost of service revenue on the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. we receive advance payments for set-up fees on some of our service offerings from our clients. advance payments received for certain of our service offerings are considered a material right. we defer the revenue associated with these advance payments, recognizing the revenue and related expenses over the expected period to which the right exists. peo solutions revenue is reported net of certain direct pass-through costs billed and incurred, which include payroll wages, payroll taxes, including federal and state unemployment insurance, and certain health insurance benefit premiums, primarily costs related to our guaranteed cost benefit plans. direct costs related to workers' compensation and certain benefit plans where we retain risk are recognized as cost of service revenue rather than as a reduction in service revenue. interest on funds held for clients is earned primarily on funds that are collected from clients before due dates for payroll tax administration services and for employee payment services, and invested until remittance to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies or client employees. these collections from clients are typically remitted from one to 30 days after receipt, with some items extending to 90 days. the interest earned on these funds is included in total revenue on the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income because the collecting, holding, and remitting of these funds are components of providing these services. assets recognized from the costs to obtain and fulfill contracts: we recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a client if it is expected that the economic benefit and amortization period will be longer than one year. incremental costs of obtaining a contract include only those costs that are directly related to the acquisition of new contracts and that would not have been incurred if the contract had not been obtained. we do not incur incremental costs to obtain a contract renewal. the company determined that certain sales commissions and bonuses, including related fringe benefits, meet the capitalization criteria under accounting standards codification ( asc ) subtopic 340-40, other assets and deferred costs: contracts with customers ( asc 340-40 ). we also recognize an asset for the costs to fulfill a contract with a client if the costs are specifically identifiable, generate or enhance resources used to satisfy future performance obligations, and are expected to be recovered. we determined that substantially all costs related to implementation activities are administrative in nature and meet the capitalization criteria under asc 340-40. these capitalized costs to fulfill a contract principally relate to upfront direct costs that are expected to be recovered and enhance our ability to satisfy future performance obligations. the assets related to both costs to obtain and costs to fulfill contracts with clients are capitalized and amortized using an accelerated method over an eight-year life to closely align with the pattern of client attrition over the estimated life of the client relationship. we regularly review our deferred costs for potential impairment and did not recognize an impairment loss during the fiscal years ended may 31, 2020 or may 31, 2019. 30 table of contents peo insurance reserves: as part of the peo solution, we offer workers' compensation insurance and health insurance to clients for the benefit of client employees. workers' compensation insurance is primarily provided under fully insured high deductible workers' compensation insurance policies. workers' compensation insurance reserves are established to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims up to per occurrence liability limits. these reserves include estimates of certain expenses associated with processing and settling these claims. in establishing the peo workers' compensation insurance reserves, we use an independent actuarial estimate of undiscounted future cash payments that would be made to settle claims. the evaluation, review and determination of estimated ultimate losses by our appointed actuary are based on actuarial methods and assumptions. the estimated ultimate losses are primarily based upon estimated loss development factors, and other factors such as the nature of employees' job responsibilities, the historical frequency and severity of workers' compensation claims, and an estimate of future cost trends. each reporting period, changes in actuarial assumptions resulting from changes in actual claims experience and other trends are incorporated into our workers' compensation claims cost estimates. with respect to our peo health insurance, we offer various health insurance plans that take the form of either fully insured guaranteed cost plans with various national insurance carriers or a fully insured minimum premium insurance arrangement with coverage provided through a single national carrier. in addition, we also provide self-insured dental and vision plans to certain peo clients. under the minimum medical premium insurance arrangement and self-insured dental and vision plans, our health benefits insurance reserves are established to provide for the payment of claims in accordance with our service contract with the carrier. the claims liability includes estimates for reported losses, plus amounts for those claims incurred but not reported, and estimates of certain expenses associated with processing and settling the claims. estimating the ultimate cost of future claims is an uncertain and complex process based upon historical loss experience and independent actuarial loss projections, and is subject to change due to multiple factors, including economic trends, changes in legal liability law, and damage awards, all of which could materially impact the reserves as reported in the consolidated financial statements. accordingly, final claim settlements may vary from the present estimates, particularly with workers' compensation insurance where those payments may not occur until well into the future. we regularly review the adequacy of our estimated insurance reserves. adjustments to previously established reserves are reflected in the results of operations for the period in which the adjustment is identified. such adjustments could possibly be significant, reflecting any combination of new and adverse or favorable trends. adjustments to previously established reserves were not material for the fiscal years 2020, 2019, or 2018. goodwill and other intangible assets: goodwill is not amortized, but instead is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change in a way to indicate that there has been a potential decline in the fair value of the reporting unit. we perform our annual impairment testing in our fiscal fourth quarter. a qualitative analysis was performed for all reporting units in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, to determine if it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting units had declined below its carrying value. the qualitative assessment considered various financial, macroeconomic, industry, and reporting unit specific qualitative factors. based on the results of our testing, no impairment loss was recognized in the results of operations for fiscal 2020, 2019, or 2018. subsequent to the latest review, there have been no events or circumstances that indicate any potential impairment of the company's goodwill balance. we also test intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for potential impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events or changes in circumstances change in a way that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. we have determined that there is no impairment of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for fiscal 2020, 2019, or 2018. impairment of long-lived assets: long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite lives and operating lease right-of-use assets, are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. we have determined that there is no impairment of long-lived assets for fiscal 2020, 2019, or 2018. stock-based compensation costs: all stock-based awards to employees are recognized as compensation costs in our consolidated financial statements based on their fair values measured as of the date of grant. we estimate the fair value of stock option grants using a black-scholes option pricing model. this model requires various assumptions as inputs including expected volatility of the paychex stock price and expected option life. volatility is estimated based on a combination of historical volatility using stock prices over a period equal to the expected option life and implied market volatility. expected option life is estimated based on historical exercise behavior. we periodically reassess our assumptions as well as our choice of valuation model. we will reconsider use of this model if additional information becomes available in the future indicating that another model would provide a more accurate estimate of fair value, or if characteristics of future grants would warrant such a change. 31 table of contents the fair value of stock awards is determined based on the stock price at the date of grant. for grants that do not accrue dividends or dividend equivalents, the fair value is the stock price reduced by the present value of estimated dividends over the vesting period or performance period. we estimate forfeitures and only record compensation costs for those awards that are expected to vest. our assumptions for forfeitures were determined based on type of award and historical experience. forfeiture assumptions are adjusted at the point in time a significant change is identified, with any adjustment recorded in the period of change, and the final adjustment at the end of the requisite service period to equal actual forfeitures. the assumptions of volatility, expected option life, and forfeitures all require significant judgment and are subject to change in the future due to factors such as employee exercise behavior, stock price trends, and changes to type or provisions of stock-based awards. any material change in one or more of these assumptions could have a material impact on the estimated fair value of a future award. refer to note f of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for further discussion of our stock-based compensation plans. income taxes: we account for deferred taxes by recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the consolidated financial statements or tax returns. under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the fiscal year in which the differences are expected to reverse. we record a deferred tax asset related to the stock-based compensation costs recognized for certain stock-based awards. at the time of the exercise of non-qualified stock options or vesting of stock awards, we recognize any excess tax benefit within income taxes in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. we maintain a reserve for uncertain tax positions. we evaluate tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return for recognition in our consolidated financial statements. prior to recording the related tax benefit in our consolidated financial statements, we must conclude that tax positions will be more-likely-than-not to be sustained, assuming those positions will be examined by taxing authorities with full knowledge of all relevant information. the benefit recognized in our consolidated financial statements is the amount we expect to realize after examination by taxing authorities. if a tax position drops below the more-likely-than-not standard, the benefit can no longer be recognized. assumptions, judgment, and the use of estimates are required in determining if the more-likely-than-not standard has been met when developing the provision for income taxes and in determining the expected benefit. a change in the assessment of the more-likely-than-not standard could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. refer to note l of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for further discussion of our reserve for uncertain tax positions. 32 table of contents ite m 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. we follow an investment strategy of protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. a substantial portion of our portfolios is invested in high credit quality securities with ratings of aa or higher, and a-1/p-1 ratings on short-term securities. we invest predominately in municipal bonds including general obligation bonds and revenue bonds; u.s. government agency and treasury securities; and corporate bonds. we limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest primarily in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. we manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. during fiscal 2020, our primary short-term investment vehicles were u.s. government agency and treasury securities, vrdns, and bank demand deposit accounts. we have no exposure to high-risk or non-liquid investments. we have insignificant exposure to european investments. we have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. during fiscal 2020, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 1.8%, compared to 1.9% and 1.5% for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. when interest rates are falling, the full impact of lower interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. during a falling interest rate environment, earnings decrease from our short-term investments, and over time earnings will decrease from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from the available-for-sale securities, which as of may 31, 2020 had an average duration of 2.9 years, would not reflect decreases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at lower rates. the amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of may 31, 2020 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2020 amortized fair in millions cost value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 353.4 $ 355.7 due after one year through three years 700.9 723.5 due after three years through five years 812.0 850.0 due after five years 790.9 828.0 total $ 2,657.2 $ 2,757.2 vrdns are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. the federal reserve reduced the federal funds rate by 25 basis points three times in the first nine months of fiscal 2020 after periodically raising the rate from december 2015 through may 2019. then in response to the covid-19 pandemic, the federal reserve reduced the federal funds rate a total of 150 basis points. as of may 31, 2020, the federal funds rate was in the range of 0.0% to 0.25% as compared to a range of 2.25% to 2.50% as of may 31, 2019, and in the range of 1.50% to 1.75% as of may 31, 2018. there continues to be uncertainty in the changing market and economic conditions, including the possibility of additional measures that could be taken by the federal reserve and other government agencies, related to the covid-19 pandemic. we will continue to monitor market conditions. calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: governmental action resulting from the covid-19 pandemic; daily interest rate changes; 33 table of contents seasonal variations in investment balances; actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities; the proportion of taxable and tax-exempt investments; changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates. subject to these factors and under normal financial market conditions, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. under normal financial market conditions, the impact to earnings from a 25-basis-point change in short-term interest rates would be approximately $3.0 million to $4.0 million, after taxes, for a twelve-month period. such a basis point change may or may not be tied to changes in the federal funds rate. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate cash equivalents and investments) averaged approximately $4.8 billion for fiscal 2020. our anticipated allocation is approximately 40% invested in short-term securities and vrdns with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 60% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three and three-quarters years. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected net unrealized gains of $100.0 million and $19.7 million as of may 31, 2020 and may 31, 2019, respectively. refer to note h of the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in item 8 of this form 10-k for additional disclosures on fair value measurements. during fiscal 2020, the net unrealized gain or loss on our investment portfolios ranged from an unrealized gain of $106.3 million to an unrealized loss of $27.0 million. during fiscal 2019, the net unrealized gain or loss on our investment portfolios ranged from an unrealized gain of $19.7 million to an unrealized loss of $60.7 million. the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios was approximately $112.4 million as of july 15, 2020. as of may 31, 2020 and 2019, we had $2.8 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 2.1% as of may 31, 2020 and may 31, 2019. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates, such as the vrdns. assuming a hypothetical increase in longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of may 31, 2020, would be in the range of $20.0 million to $25.0 million. conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in fair value. this hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio's recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders' equity. these fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized. credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. we regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. we believe that the investments we held as of may 31, 2020 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. while $66.8 million of our available-for-sale securities had fair values that were below amortized cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that unrealized losses of $1.7 million were due to changes in interest rates and were not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. most of the securities in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2020 and 2019 held an aa rating or better. we do not intend to sell these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believe that it is not more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these investments prior to that time. our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. we have some credit risk exposure relating to the purchase of accounts receivable as a means of providing payroll funding to clients in the temporary staffing industry. this credit risk exposure is diversified amongst multiple client arrangements and all such arrangements are regularly reviewed for potential write-off. no single client is material in respect to total accounts receivable, service revenue, or results of operations. 34 table of contents ite m 8. financial statements and supplementary data table of contents description page report on management's assessment of internal control over financial reporting 36 report of independent registered public accounting firm 37 consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the years ended may 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 39 consolidated balance sheets as of may 31, 2020 and 2019 40 consolidated statements of stockholders' equity for the years ended may 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 41 consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended may 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 42 notes to consolidated financial statements 43 schedule ii valuation and qualifying accounts for the years ended may 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 74 35 table of contents repo rt on management's assessment of internal control over financial reporting management of paychex, inc. (the company ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the company's internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2020. in making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission in internal control integrated framework (2013). based on our assessment, management determined that the company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2020. the company's independent registered public accounting firm, pricewaterhousecoopers llp, is appointed by the company's audit committee. pricewaterhousecoopers llp has audited the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k and the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2020, and as a part of their integrated audit, has issued their report, included herein, on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. /s/ martin mucci martin mucci president and chief executive officer /s/ efrain rivera efrain rivera senior vice president, chief financial officer, and treasurer 36 table of contents re port of independent registered public accounting firm to the board of directors and stockholders of paychex, inc. opinions on the financial statements and internal control over financial reporting we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of paychex, inc. and its subsidiaries (the company ) as of may 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, of stockholders' equity, and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended may 31, 2020, including the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index (collectively referred to as the consolidated financial statements ). we also have audited the company&apos;s internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2020, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the company as of may 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended may 31, 2020 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. also in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of may 31, 2020, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the coso. change in accounting principle as discussed in note a to the consolidated financial statements, the company changed the manner in which it accounts for leases on june 1, 2019. basis for opinions the company&apos;s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying report on management's assessment of internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express opinions on the company's consolidated financial statements and on the company&apos;s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. we are a public accounting firm registered with the public company accounting oversight board (united states) (pcaob) and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 37 table of contents because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. critical audit matters the critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. the communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. professional employer organization (peo) insurance reserves - workers' compensation insurance reserves as described in note a to the consolidated financial statements, the company offers workers' compensation insurance to clients for the benefit of client employees. workers' compensation insurance is primarily provided under fully insured high deductible workers' compensation insurance policies. workers' compensation insurance reserves are established to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims up to per occurrence liability limits. as of may 31, 2020, the total liability for workers' compensation insurance reserves is $173.6 million. in establishing the workers&apos; compensation insurance reserves, management uses an independent actuarial estimate of undiscounted future cash payments that would be made to settle the claims. the evaluation, review and determination of estimated ultimate losses by the company's appointed actuary are based on actuarial methods and assumptions. the estimated ultimate losses are primarily based upon estimated loss development factors, and other factors such as the nature of employees' job responsibilities, the historical frequency and severity of workers' compensation claims, and an estimate of future cost trends. the principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to peo insurance reserves - workers' compensation insurance reserves is a critical audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by management in determining the workers' compensation insurance reserves, which in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing our procedures and evaluating management's assumptions and actuarial estimates related to the estimated loss development factors and other factors such as the historical frequency and severity of workers' compensation claims and an estimate of future cost trends, and (ii) the audit effort included the involvement of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge. addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. these procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to the company's workers' compensation insurance reserves, including controls over the development of management's assumptions and actuarial estimates related to the estimated loss development factors. these procedures also included, among others (i) the involvement of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in developing an independent estimate of the workers' compensation insurance reserves and (ii) comparison of this independent estimate to management's estimate to evaluate the reasonableness of management's estimate. developing an independent estimate involved (i) testing the completeness and accuracy of data provided by management and (ii) evaluating management's assumptions and actuarial estimates related to the estimated loss development factors and other factors such as the historical frequency and severity of workers' compensation claims and an estimate of future cost trends. /s/ pricewaterhousecoopers llp rochester, new york july 17, 2020 we have served as the company's auditor since 2013. 38 table of contents pa ychex, inc. consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income in millions, except per share amounts year ended may 31, 2020 2019 2018 revenue: management solutions $ 2,963.0 $ 2,877.7 $ 2,758.4 peo and insurance solutions 990.6 814.2 555.8 total service revenue 3,953.6 3,691.9 3,314.2 interest on funds held for clients 86.9 80.6 63.5 total revenue 4,040.5 3,772.5 3,377.7 expenses: cost of service revenue 1,280.8 1,177.8 1,018.2 selling, general and administrative expenses 1,299.2 1,223.4 1,068.0 total expenses 2,580.0 2,401.2 2,086.2 operating income 1,460.5 1,371.3 1,291.5 other (expense)/income, net ( 23.4 ) ( 3.3 ) 8.6 income before income taxes 1,437.1 1,368.0 1,300.1 income taxes 339.0 333.6 306.0 net income $ 1,098.1 $ 1,034.4 $ 994.1 other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax 56.4 36.3 ( 56.2 ) comprehensive income $ 1,154.5 $ 1,070.7 $ 937.9 basic earnings per share $ 3.06 $ 2.88 $ 2.77 diluted earnings per share $ 3.04 $ 2.86 $ 2.75 weighted-average common shares outstanding 358.5 359.2 359.0 weighted-average common shares outstanding, assuming dilution 361.0 361.8 361.5 see notes to consolidated financial statements. 39 table of contents pa ychex, inc. consolidated balance sheets in millions, except per share amounts as of may 31, 2020 2019 assets cash and cash equivalents $ 905.2 $ 673.6 restricted cash 49.8 50.6 corporate investments 27.2 39.0 interest receivable 26.2 27.4 accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts 384.1 420.5 peo unbilled receivables, net of advance collections 380.0 406.3 prepaid income taxes 16.8 22.6 prepaid expenses and other current assets 244.8 233.9 current assets before funds held for clients 2,034.1 1,873.9 funds held for clients 3,430.5 3,803.8 total current assets 5,464.6 5,677.7 long-term restricted cash 21.3 6.5 long-term corporate investments 10.2 10.2 property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation 407.4 408.7 operating lease right-of-use assets, net of accumulated amortization 114.8 intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization 330.6 399.1 goodwill 1,791.1 1,782.6 long-term deferred costs 372.5 366.3 other long-term assets 38.2 24.9 total assets $ 8,550.7 $ 8,676.0 liabilities accounts payable $ 79.4 $ 75.9 accrued corporate compensation and related items 131.7 146.4 accrued worksite employee compensation and related items 512.4 578.6 short-term borrowings 5.1 accrued income taxes 50.5 deferred revenue 39.2 40.3 other current liabilities 277.6 219.5 current liabilities before client fund obligations 1,095.9 1,060.7 client fund obligations 3,331.0 3,784.3 total current liabilities 4,426.9 4,845.0 accrued income taxes 33.5 27.3 deferred income taxes 240.8 223.1 long-term borrowings, net of debt issuance costs 796.8 796.4 operating lease liabilities 96.9 13.0 other long-term liabilities 174.4 151.7 total liabilities 5,769.3 6,056.5 commitments and contingencies note r stockholders' equity common stock, $ 0.01 par value; authorized: 600.0 shares; issued and outstanding: 358.8 shares as of may 31, 2020 and 359.3 shares as of may 31, 2019, respectively. 3.6 3.6 additional paid-in capital 1,289.9 1,206.3 retained earnings 1,431.4 1,409.5 accumulated other comprehensive income 56.5 0.1 total stockholders' equity 2,781.4 2,619.5 total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 8,550.7 $ 8,676.0 see notes to consolidated financial statements. 40 table of contents pay chex, inc. consolidated statements of stockholders' equity in millions accumulated additional other common stock paid-in retained comprehensive shares amount capital earnings income/(loss) total balance as of may 31, 2017 359.4 $ 3.6 $ 1,030.0 $ 1,173.6 $ 20.0 $ 2,227.2 net income 994.1 994.1 unrealized losses on securities, net of tax ( 47.6 ) ( 47.6 ) cash dividends declared ($ 2.06 per share) ( 739.7 ) ( 739.7 ) repurchases of common shares ( 2.5 ) ( 4.5 ) ( 138.6 ) ( 143.1 ) acquisition of businesses 0.6 33.2 33.2 stock-based compensation 44.6 44.6 foreign currency translation adjustment ( 8.6 ) ( 8.6 ) activity related to equity-based plans 1.5 23.5 ( 26.8 ) ( 3.3 ) balance as of may 31, 2018 359.0 3.6 1,126.8 1,262.6 ( 36.2 ) 2,356.8 net income 1,034.4 1,034.4 unrealized gains on securities, net of tax 44.0 44.0 cash dividends declared ($ 2.30 per share) ( 826.8 ) ( 826.8 ) repurchases of common shares ( 0.7 ) ( 1.4 ) ( 55.5 ) ( 56.9 ) stock-based compensation 46.2 46.2 foreign currency translation adjustment ( 7.7 ) ( 7.7 ) activity related to equity-based plans 1.0 34.7 ( 5.2 ) 29.5 balance as of may 31, 2019 359.3 3.6 1,206.3 1,409.5 0.1 2,619.5 net income 1,098.1 1,098.1 unrealized gains on securities, net of reclassification adjustments and tax 60.4 60.4 cash dividends declared ($ 2.48 per share) ( 889.4 ) ( 889.4 ) repurchases of common shares ( 2.0 ) ( 3.7 ) ( 168.2 ) ( 171.9 ) stock-based compensation 47.4 47.4 foreign currency translation adjustment ( 4.0 ) ( 4.0 ) activity related to equity-based plans 1.5 39.9 ( 18.6 ) 21.3 balance as of may 31, 2020 358.8 $ 3.6 $ 1,289.9 $ 1,431.4 $ 56.5 $ 2,781.4 see notes to consolidated financial statements. 41 table of contents pa ychex, inc. consolidated statements of cash flows in millions year ended may 31, 2020 2019 2018 operating activities net income $ 1,098.1 $ 1,034.4 $ 994.1 adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: depreciation and amortization 209.7 181.5 138.0 amortization of premiums and discounts on available-for-sale securities, net 40.8 49.0 65.4 amortization of deferred contract costs 186.1 180.2 174.7 stock-based compensation costs 47.4 46.2 44.6 (benefit)/provision for deferred income taxes ( 4.0 ) 4.7 ( 37.2 ) provision for allowance for doubtful accounts 7.8 3.3 3.6 net realized gains on sales of available-for-sale securities ( 11.3 ) ( 0.1 ) changes in operating assets and liabilities: interest receivable 1.2 4.8 3.7 accounts receivable and peo unbilled receivables, net 55.1 ( 117.2 ) 16.2 prepaid expenses and other current assets ( 1.6 ) 1.0 18.0 accounts payable and other current liabilities ( 4.9 ) 77.5 42.9 deferred costs ( 196.6 ) ( 188.5 ) ( 181.8 ) net change in other long-term assets and liabilities 12.7 ( 5.4 ) ( 5.7 ) net change in operating lease right-of-use assets and liabilities 0.4 net cash provided by operating activities 1,440.9 1,271.5 1,276.4 investing activities purchases of available-for-sale securities ( 25,218.1 ) ( 35,145.8 ) ( 50,220.2 ) proceeds from sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities 26,132.9 34,638.8 51,592.9 purchases of property and equipment ( 127.0 ) ( 123.8 ) ( 154.0 ) acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired ( 6.1 ) ( 992.2 ) ( 180.4 ) purchases of other assets ( 9.8 ) ( 5.3 ) ( 39.8 ) net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities 771.9 ( 1,628.3 ) 998.5 financing activities net change in client fund obligations ( 453.3 ) ( 950.6 ) 462.4 net proceeds from short-term borrowings 5.1 proceeds from borrowings to fund acquisition 796.3 dividends paid ( 889.4 ) ( 826.8 ) ( 739.7 ) repurchases of common shares ( 171.9 ) ( 56.9 ) ( 143.1 ) activity related to equity-based plans 21.3 29.5 ( 3.4 ) net cash used in financing activities ( 1,488.2 ) ( 1,008.5 ) ( 423.8 ) net change in cash, restricted cash, and equivalents 724.6 ( 1,365.3 ) 1,851.1 cash, restricted cash, and equivalents, beginning of fiscal year 935.2 2,300.5 449.4 cash, restricted cash, and equivalents, end of fiscal year $ 1,659.8 $ 935.2 $ 2,300.5 reconciliation of cash, restricted cash, and equivalents cash and cash equivalents $ 905.2 $ 673.6 $ 358.2 restricted cash 71.1 57.1 restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents included in funds held for clients 683.5 204.5 1,942.3 total cash, restricted cash, and equivalents $ 1,659.8 $ 935.2 $ 2,300.5 see notes to consolidated financial statements. 42 table of contents pay chex, inc. notes to consolidated financial statements note a description of business, basis of presentation, and significant accounting policies description of business: paychex, inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (collectively, the company or paychex ) is a leading provider of integrated human capital management ( hcm ) solutions for human resources ( hr ), payroll, benefits, and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses in the united states ( u.s. ). the company also has operations in parts of europe. paychex, a delaware corporation formed in 1979 , reports as one segment. substantially all of the company's revenue is generated within the u.s. the company also generates revenue within parts of europe, which represented one percent of the company's total revenue for each of the fiscal years ended may 31, 2020 ( fiscal 2020 ) and may 31, 2019 ( fiscal 2019 ), and less than one percent for the fiscal year ended may 31, 2018 ( fiscal 2018 ). long-lived assets in europe were approximately five percent of total long-lived assets of the company as of both may 31, 2020 and may 31, 2019, respectively. within paychex's hcm solutions, paychex offers a comprehensive portfolio of services and products that allow its clients to meet their diverse hr and payroll needs. clients can select services on an la carte basis or as part of various product bundles. paychex's offerings often leverage the information gathered in its base payroll processing service, allowing the company to provide comprehensive outsourcing services covering the hcm spectrum. paychex supports its small business clients utilizing its proprietary, robust, software-as-a-service ( saas ) paychex flex platform and the company's surepayroll saas-based products. both products allow users to process payroll when they want, how they want, and on any device (desktop, tablet, and mobile phone). paychex's mid-market clients generally have more complex payroll and employee benefit needs. however, in the current environment of increasing regulations, the company believes the needs for hr outsourcing solutions have been moving down-market. any of the company's clients on paychex flex can opt for the integrated suite of hcm solutions, which allows clients to choose the services and software that will meet the needs of their business. total revenue is comprised of service revenue and interest on funds held for clients. service revenue is comprised primarily of the fees earned on the portfolio of hcm services, which include payroll processing, complementary hr management and administration services, peo ( professional employer organization ) solutions, and insurance agency commissions. refer to note b of this item 8 for further discussion of the company's service revenue. basis of presentation: the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of paychex, inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. all intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. certain disclosures are reported as zero balances due to rounding. effective june 1, 2019, the company adopted the requirements of asu no. 2016-02, leases (topic 842) ( asu no. 2016-02 ) as discussed in the recently adopted accounting pronouncements section of thisrisk factors our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results and from our projections. important factors known to us that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and those contained in the safe harbor statement at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. we may be adversely impacted by volatility in the financial and economic environment: during periods of weakening economic conditions, employment levels may decrease and interest rates may become more volatile. these conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. in addition, new business starts may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. the interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. in addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. we historically have not borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet liquidity needs. however, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. if all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance: we receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income. our services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies: many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continue to change. changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology: to maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients requirements. we continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. if our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. there can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. if we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. in the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations: our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we have a 8 table of contents business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. if the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. we may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions: as part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. these service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. we may make errors and omissions in providing services, which could result in significant penalties and liabilities for us: processing, tracking, collecting, and remitting client funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies, client employees, and other third parties are complex operations. these tasks could be subject to error and these errors could include, but are not limited to, late filing with applicable tax or regulatory agencies, underpayment of taxes, and failure to comply with applicable banking regulations and laws relating to employee benefits administration, which could result in significant penalties and liabilities that would adversely affect our results of operations. we could also transfer funds in error to an incorrect party or for the wrong amount, and may be unable to correct the error or recover the funds, resulting in a loss to us. we may experience a loss as the result of our clients having insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on their behalf to applicable tax or regulatory agencies and employees: as part of the payroll processing service, we are authorized by our clients to transfer money from their bank accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and applicable tax or regulatory agencies. it is possible that we would be held liable for such amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover them. we have made in the past, and may make in the future, payments on our clients behalf for which we are not reimbursed, resulting in a loss to us. our business and reputation may be affected by our ability to keep clients information confidential: our business involves the use of significant amounts of private and confidential client information including employees identification numbers, bank accounts, and retirement account information. this information is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients, and certain information may be transmitted via the internet. there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. if our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulation investigation and penalties, loss of clients business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our peo business: many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the co-employment relationship. as a result, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. although our agreements with the clients provide that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. in addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the employer under any of the state or federal laws. we may not realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions: from time to time we acquire other companies. the effective integration of acquired companies may be difficult to achieve. it is also possible that we may not realize any or all expected benefits from acquisitions or achieve benefits from acquisitions in a timely manner. in addition, we may incur significant costs and management time and attention may be diverted from other parts of our business in connection with the integration of acquisitions. failure to effectively integrate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 9 table of contents we may have an adverse outcome of legal matters, which could harm our business: we are subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. these include disputes or potential disputes related to breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters. as of may 31, 2009, we have a reserve of $20.4 million for pending litigation. refer to item 3 of this form 10-k for additional disclosure regarding legal proceedings. in light of the litigation reserve recorded, our management currently believes that resolution of outstanding legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of our operations. however, legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that their ultimate resolution could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: refer to item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on market risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our operating and investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. we maintain a conservative investment strategy within our investment portfolios to maximize liquidity and protect principal. we attempt to mitigate the risks associated with our investing activities by investing primarily in high credit quality securities with aaa and aa ratings and short-term securities with a-1/p-1 ratings, limiting amounts that can be invested in any single issuer, and by investing in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. we manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three years. all investments held as of may 31, 2009 are traded in active markets. as of may 31, 2009, we had no exposure to vrdns or prime money market funds. in september 2008, we sold all of our holdings of these types of investments as a result of turmoil in the related markets. no losses were recognized on those sales. the proceeds from the sales of these investments were reinvested in u.s. agency discount notes, which are currently our primary short-term investment option. we have no exposure to auction rate securities, sub-prime mortgage securities, asset-backed securities or asset-backed commercial paper, collateralized debt obligations, enhanced cash or cash plus mutual funds, or structured investment vehicles (sivs). we have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. during fiscal 2009, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 2.1% compared with 3.7% for fiscal 2008 and 4.0% for fiscal 2007. with the turmoil currently in the financial markets, our conservative investment strategy translates to significantly lower yields on high quality instruments. when interest rates are falling, the full impact of lower interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. during a falling interest rate environment, the decreases in interest rates decrease earnings from our short-term investments, and over time decrease earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from available-for-sale securities, which as of may 31, 2009 had an average duration of two and one-half years, would not reflect decreases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at lower rates. in the next twelve months, slightly less than 20% of our available-for-sale portfolio will mature, and it is currently anticipated that these proceeds will be reinvested at a lower average interest rate of approximately 1.40%. 31 table of contents the cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of may 31, 2009 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2009 in millions cost fair value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 292.6 $ 294.8 due after one year through three years 669.3 693.5 due after three years through five years 513.8 541.1 due after five years 238.4 251.4 total $ 1,714.1 $ 1,780.8 the following table summarizes the changes in the federal funds rate over the past three fiscal years: 2009 2008 2007 federal funds rate beginning of fiscal year 2.00 % 5.25 % 5.00 % rate (decrease)/increase: first quarter 0.25 second quarter (1.00 ) (0.75 ) third quarter (0.75 ) (1.50 ) fourth quarter (1.00 ) federal funds rate end of fiscal year (1) 0.25 % 2.00 % 5.25 % three-year aaa municipal securities yields end of fiscal year 1.35 % 2.65 % 3.71 % (1) the federal funds rate was a range of zero to 0.25% as of may 31, 2009. calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: daily interest rate changes; seasonal variations in investment balances; actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities; the proportional mix of taxable and tax-exempt investments; changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates. subject to these factors, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) averaged approximately $3.9 billion for fiscal 2009. our anticipated allocation is approximately 50% invested in short-term securities and available-for-sale securities with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 50% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three years. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized gain of $66.7 million as of may 31, 2009, compared with a net unrealized gain of $24.8 million as of may 31, 2008. during fiscal 2009, the investment portfolios ranged from a net unrealized loss of $15.2 million to a net unrealized gain of $86.6 million. during fiscal 2008, the investment portfolios ranged from a net unrealized loss of 32 table of contents $24.3 million to a net unrealized gain of $48.7 million. the net unrealized gain of our investment portfolios was approximately $72.7 million as of july 10, 2009. as of may 31, 2009 and may 31, 2008, we had $1.8 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 3.3% and 3.4%, as of may 31, 2009 and may 31, 2008, respectively. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates such as the vrdns held as of may 31, 2008. we held no vrdns as of may 31, 2009. assuming a hypothetical decrease in both short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential increase in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of may 31, 2009, would be approximately $11.0 million. conversely, a corresponding increase in interest rates would result in a comparable decrease in fair value. this hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity. these fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized. credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. we attempt to mitigate this risk by investing primarily in high credit quality securities with aaa and aa ratings and short-term securities with a-1/p-1 ratings, and by limiting amounts that can be invested in any single issuer. we regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. we believe that the investments we held as of may 31, 2009 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. while certain available-for-sale securities had fair values that were below cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that the decline in the fair value was due to changes in interest rates and was not due to increased credit risk. as of may 31, 2009 and may 31, 2008, the majority of the securities with an unrealized loss held an aa rating or better. we have the ability and intent to hold these investments until the earlier of market price recovery or maturity. our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. 33 table of contentsrisk factors our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results and from our projections. important factors known to us that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and those contained in the safe harbor statement at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. we may be adversely impacted by volatility in the financial and economic environment: during periods of weakening economic conditions, employment levels may decrease and interest rates may become more volatile. these conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. in addition, new business starts may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. the interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. in addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. we historically have not borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet liquidity needs. however, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. if all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance: we receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income. our services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies: many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continually change. changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. the recently enacted hiring incentives to restore employment ( hire ) act provides temporary tax breaks to companies that hire the unemployed and will impact our payroll tax administration service clients. the recently enacted health care reform legislation will have a direct impact on insurance services clients. failure to educate and assist our client regarding these legislations could have an adverse impact on our reputation. failure by 7 table of contents us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology: to maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients requirements. we continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. if our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. there can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. if we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. in the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations: our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, severe weather including events resulting from climate change, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. our business continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of severe weather, including floods and snowstorms, and has been successful. however, these past successes are not an indicator of success in the future. if the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. we may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions: as part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. these service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. our business and reputation may be affected by our ability to keep clients information confidential: our business involves the use of significant amounts of private and confidential client information including employees identification numbers, bank accounts, and retirement account information. this information is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients, and certain information may be transmitted via the internet. there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. if our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulation investigation and penalties, loss of clients business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our peo business: many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the co-employment relationship. as a result, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. although our agreements with the clients provide that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. in addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the employer under any applicable state or federal laws. we may have an adverse outcome of legal matters, which could harm our business: we are subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. these include disputes or potential disputes related to breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters. refer to item 3 of this form 10-k for additional disclosure regarding legal proceedings. legal matters are 8 table of contents subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that their ultimate resolution could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: refer to item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on market risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our operating and investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the 27 table of contents earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. we follow a conservative investment strategy of optimizing liquidity and protecting principal. we invest primarily in high credit quality securities with aaa and aa ratings and short-term securities with a-1/p-1 ratings. we limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. we manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three years. all investments held as of may 31, 2010 are traded in active markets. since september 2008, our primary short-term investment vehicle has been u.s. agency discount notes. in september 2008, we sold all of our holdings of vrdns and prime money market funds as a result of turmoil in the related markets. no losses were recognized on those sales. the proceeds from the sales of these investments were reinvested in u.s. agency discount notes. since then, we have seen gradual improvement in liquidity in certain money market sectors, and starting in november 2009 we began to invest in select a-1/p-1-rated vrdns. during fiscal 2010, we earned an after-tax rate of approximately 0.21% for vrdns compared to approximately 0.07% for u.s. agency discount notes. we have no exposure to high-risk or illiquid investments such as auction rate securities, sub-prime mortgage securities, asset-backed securities or asset-backed commercial paper, collateralized debt obligations, enhanced cash or cash plus mutual funds, or structured investment vehicles (sivs). we have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. during fiscal 2010, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 1.5%, compared with 2.1% for fiscal 2009 and 3.7% for fiscal 2008. with the turmoil in the financial markets, our conservative investment strategy has translated to significantly lower yields on high quality instruments. when interest rates are falling, the full impact of lower interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. during a falling interest rate environment, the decreases in interest rates decrease earnings from our short-term investments, and over time decrease earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from the available-for-sale securities, which as of may 31, 2010 had an average duration of 2.5 years, would not reflect decreases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at lower rates. in the next twelve months, slightly over 15% of our available-for-sale portfolio will mature, and it is currently anticipated that these proceeds will be reinvested at a lower average interest rate of approximately 1.0%. the amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of may 31, 2010 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2010 in millions amortized cost fair value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 320.3 $ 324.0 due after one year through three years 756.3 783.1 due after three years through five years 499.5 526.1 due after five years 509.1 518.6 total $ 2,085.2 $ 2,151.8 vrdns are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. 28 table of contents the following table summarizes the changes in the federal funds rate over the past three fiscal years: 2010 2009 2008 federal funds rate beginning of fiscal year 0.25 % 2.00 % 5.25 % rate decrease: first quarter second quarter (1.00 ) (0.75 ) third quarter (0.75 ) (1.50 ) fourth quarter (1.00 ) federal funds rate end of fiscal year (1) 0.25 % 0.25 % 2.00 % three-year aaa municipal securities yields end of fiscal year 0.99 % 1.35 % 2.65 % (1) the federal funds rate was a range of zero to 0.25% as of may 31, 2010 and may 31, 2009. calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: daily interest rate changes; seasonal variations in investment balances; actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities; the proportional mix of taxable and tax-exempt investments; changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates. subject to these factors and under normal financial market conditions, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) averaged approximately $3.8 billion for fiscal 2010. our anticipated allocation is approximately 50% invested in short-term securities and available-for-sale securities with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 50% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three years. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized gain of $66.6 million as of may 31, 2010, compared with a net unrealized gain of $66.7 million as of may 31, 2009. during fiscal 2010, the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $55.1 million to $82.4 million. during fiscal 2009, the investment portfolios ranged from a net unrealized loss of $15.2 million to a net unrealized gain of $86.6 million. the net unrealized gain of our investment portfolios was approximately $71.9 million as of july 12, 2010. as of may 31, 2010 and may 31, 2009, we had $2.2 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 2.9% and 3.3% as of may 31, 2010 and may 31, 2009, respectively. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates such as the vrdns held as of may 31, 2010. we held no vrdns as of may 31, 2009. assuming a hypothetical decrease in both short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential increase in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of may 31, 2010, would be approximately $12.0 million. conversely, a corresponding increase in interest rates would result in a comparable decrease in fair value. this hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity. these fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized. 29 table of contents credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. we regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. we believe that the investments we held as of may 31, 2010 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. while $73.6 million of our available-for-sale securities had fair values that were below amortized cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that the decline in the fair value to $0.4 million below amortized cost was due to changes in interest rates and was not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. all of the securities in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2010 and the majority of the securities in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2009 held an aa rating or better. we intend to hold these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believe that it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these investments prior to that time. our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. 30risk factors our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results and from our projections. important factors known to us that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and those contained in the safe harbor statement at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. our services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies: many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continually change. changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. failure to educate and assist our clients regarding new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse impact on our reputation. failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance: we receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income. we may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology: to maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients requirements. we continue to make significant investments related to the 7 table of contents development of new technology. if our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. there can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. if we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. our business and reputation may be affected by our ability to keep clients information confidential: our business involves the use of significant amounts of private and confidential client information including employees identification numbers, bank accounts, and retirement account information. this information is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients, and certain information may be transmitted via the internet. there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. if our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulation investigation and penalties, loss of clients business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions: as part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. these service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. we may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our peo business: many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the co-employment relationship. as a result, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. although our agreements with the clients provide that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. in addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the employer under any applicable state or federal laws. we may be adversely impacted by volatility in the financial and economic environment: during periods of weak economic conditions, employment levels tend to decrease and interest rates may become more volatile. these conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. in addition, new business starts may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. the interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. in addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. we historically have not borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet liquidity needs. however, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. if all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations: our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, severe weather including events resulting from climate change, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. our business continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of severe weather, including floods and snowstorms, and has been successful. however, these past successes are not 8 table of contents an indicator of success in the future. if the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. we may have an adverse outcome of legal matters, which could harm our business: we are subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. these include disputes or potential disputes related to breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters. refer to item 3 of this form 10-k for additional disclosure regarding legal proceedings. legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that their ultimate resolution could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: refer to item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on market risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our operating and investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. we follow an investment strategy of optimizing liquidity and protecting principal. we invest primarily in high credit quality securities with aaa and aa ratings and short-term securities with a-1/p-1 ratings, with more than 95% of our portfolio rated aa or better. we invest predominately in municipal bonds general obligation bonds; pre-refunded bonds, which are secured by a u.s. government escrow; and essential services revenue bonds. we limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. we manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three years. all investments held as of may 31, 2011 were traded in active markets. starting in november 2009 we began to invest in select a-1/p-1-rated vrdns and have gradually increased our investment in vrdns to $828.3 million as of may 31, 2011, up from $226.3 million as of may 31, 2010. during fiscal 2011, we earned an after-tax rate of approximately 0.23% for vrdns compared to approximately 0.06% for u.s. agency discount notes, which have been our primary short-term investment vehicle. we have no exposure to high-risk or illiquid investments such as auction rate securities, sub-prime mortgage securities, asset-backed securities or asset-backed commercial paper, collateralized debt obligations, enhanced cash or cash plus mutual funds, or structured investment vehicles (sivs). we have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. during fiscal 2011, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 1.3%, compared with 1.5% for fiscal 2010 and 2.1% for fiscal 2009. when interest rates are falling, the full impact of lower interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. during a falling interest rate environment, the decreases in interest rates decrease earnings from our short-term investments, and over time decrease earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from the available-for-sale-securities, which as of may 31, 2011 had an average duration of 2.4 years, would not reflect decreases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at lower rates. in the next twelve months, slightly more than 20% of our available-for-sale portfolio will mature, and it is currently anticipated that these proceeds will be reinvested at a lower average interest rate of approximately 1.0%. 28 table of contents the amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of may 31, 2011 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2011 amortized fair in millions cost value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 408.7 $ 412.3 due after one year through three years 603.0 626.9 due after three years through five years 570.8 592.7 due after five years 1,095.4 1,105.3 total $ 2,677.9 $ 2,737.2 vrdns are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. the following table summarizes the changes in the federal funds rate over the past three fiscal years: 2011 2010 2009 federal funds rate beginning of fiscal year 0.25 % 0.25 % 2.00 % rate decrease: first quarter second quarter (1.00 ) third quarter (0.75 ) fourth quarter federal funds rate end of fiscal year (1) 0.25 % 0.25 % 0.25 % three-year aaa municipal securities yields end of fiscal year 0.80 % 0.99 % 1.35 % (1) the federal funds rate was a range of zero to 0.25% as of may 31, 2011, may 31, 2010, and may 31, 2009. calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: daily interest rate changes; seasonal variations in investment balances; actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities; the proportional mix of taxable and tax-exempt investments; changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates. subject to these factors and under normal financial market conditions, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) averaged approximately $4.0 billion for fiscal 2011. our anticipated allocation is approximately 50% invested in short-term securities and available-for-sale securities with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 50% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three years. 29 table of contents the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized gain of $59.3 million as of may 31, 2011, compared with an unrealized gain of $66.6 million as of may 31, 2010. in determining fair value, we utilize the interactive data pricing service. during fiscal 2011, the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $41.4 million to $86.2 million. during fiscal 2010, the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $55.1 million to $82.4 million. the net unrealized gain of our investment portfolios was approximately $57.5 million as of july 11, 2011. as of may 31, 2011 and may 31, 2010, we had $2.7 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 2.6% and 2.9% as of may 31, 2011 and may 31, 2010, respectively. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates such as the vrdns held as of may 31, 2011 and may 31, 2010. assuming a hypothetical decrease in both short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential increase in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of may 31, 2011, would be approximately $11.5 million. conversely, a corresponding increase in interest rates would result in a comparable decrease in fair value. this hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity. these fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized. credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. we regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. we believe that the investments we held as of may 31, 2011 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. while $51.7 million of our available-for-sale securities had fair values that were below amortized cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that the unrealized loss of $0.1 million was due to changes in interest rates and was not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. all of the securities in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2011 and may 31, 2010 held an aa rating or better. we intend to hold these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believe that it is more-likely-than-not that we will not be required to sell these investments prior to that time. our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. 30quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors: interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale debt securities, whereas corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale debt securities. the company available-for-sale debt securities are exposed to interest rate risk as interest rate volatility will cause fluctuations in the market value of held investments and the earnings potential of future investments. increases in interest rates normally decrease the market value of the available-for-sale securities, while decreases in interest rates increase the market value of the available-for-sale securities. the company available-for-sale securities and short-term funds are exposed to earnings risk from changes in interest rates, as rate volatility will cause fluctuations in the earnings potential of future investments. increases in interest rates quickly increase earnings from short-term funds, and over time increase earnings from the available-for-sale securities portfolio. decreases in interest rates have the opposite earnings effect on the available-for-sale securities and short-term funds. earnings from the available-for-sale securities do not reflect changes in rates until the investments are sold or mature, and the proceeds are reinvested at current rates. the immediate impact of changing interest rates on earnings from short-term funds may be temporarily offset by realized gains or losses from transactions in the company available-for-sale portfolio. the company directs investments towards high credit-quality, tax-exempt securities to mitigate the risk that earnings from the portfolio could be adversely impacted by changes in interest rates in the near term. the company invests in short- to intermediate-term, fixed-rate municipal and government securities, which typically have lower interest rate volatility, and normally manages the securities portfolio to a benchmark duration of 2.5 to 3.0 years. the company does not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. the trend in market interest rates during the second half of fiscal 2001 and the first half of fiscal 2002 has been interest rate reductions. the following table summarizes the changes in the federal funds rate over the last three fiscal years: 2002 2001 2000 federal funds rate beginning of fiscal year 4.00 % 6.50 % 4.75 % rate increase/(decrease): first quarter (.50 ) .50 second quarter (1.50 ) .25 third quarter (.25 ) (1.00 ) .25 fourth quarter (1.50 ) .75 federal funds rate end of fiscal year 1.75 % 4.00 % 6.50 % three-year aaa municipal securities yields at may 31: 2.75 % 3.44 % 4.96 % 19 table of contents calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to, daily interest rate changes, seasonal variations in investment balances, actual duration of short- and intermediate-term investments, the proportional mix of taxable and tax-exempt investments, and changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous. subject to these factors, a 25-basis-point change generally affects the company tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. the total investment portfolio is expected to average approximately $2.85 billion in fiscal 2003. the company normal and anticipated allocation is approximately 50% invested in short-term securities with a duration of less than 30 days and 50% invested in intermediate-term municipal securities with an average duration of three years. the company estimates that the earnings effect of a 25-basis-point change in interest rates (17 basis points for tax-exempt investments) at this point in time would be approximately $3.0 million for fiscal 2003. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale investment portfolios reflected unrealized gains of $26.7 million at may 31, 2002 and $20.5 million at may 31, 2001, compared with unrealized losses of $13.4 million at may 31, 2000. during fiscal 2002, the unrealized gain position ranged from approximately $7.5 million (during the fourth quarter) to $35.9 million (during the second quarter). as of may 31, 2002 and may 31, 2001, the company had $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value, with weighted average yields to maturity of 3.6% and 4.3%, respectively. assuming a hypothetical increase in both short-term and intermediate-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in fair value for the portfolio of securities at may 31, 2002 would be approximately $8.5 million. conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in fair value. this hypothetical decrease or increase in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity, and with no related or immediate impact to the results of operations. credit risk: the company is exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the bonds. the company attempts to limit credit risk by investing primarily in aaa and aa rated securities and a-1 rated short-term securities, and by limiting amounts that can be invested in any single instrument. at may 31, 2002, approximately 98% of the available-for-sale securities held an aa rating or better, and all short-term securities classified as cash equivalents held an a-1 or equivalent rating. 20 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale debt securities, whereas corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale debt securities. the company available-for-sale debt securities are exposed to interest rate risk as interest rate volatility will cause fluctuations in the market value of held investments and the earnings potential of future investments. increases in interest rates normally decrease the market value of the available-for-sale securities, while decreases in interest rates increase the market value of the available-for-sale securities. the company available-for-sale securities and short-term funds are exposed to earnings risk from changes in interest rates, as rate volatility will cause fluctuations in the earnings potential of future investments. increases in interest rates quickly increase earnings from short-term funds, and over time increase earnings from the available-for-sale securities portfolio. decreases in interest rates have the opposite earnings effect on the available-for-sale securities and short-term funds. earnings from the available-for-sale securities do not reflect changes in rates until the investments are sold or mature, and the proceeds are reinvested at current rates. the immediate impact of changing interest rates on earnings from short-term funds may be temporarily offset by realized gains or losses from transactions in the company available-for-sale portfolio. 19 the company directs investments towards high credit-quality, tax-exempt securities to mitigate the risk that earnings from the portfolio could be adversely impacted by changes in interest rates in the near term. the company invests in short- to intermediate-term, fixed-rate municipal and government securities, which typically have lower interest rate volatility, and normally manages the securities portfolio to a benchmark duration of 2.5 to 3.0 years. the company does not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. the following table summarizes the changes in the federal funds rate over the last three fiscal years: 2003 2002 2001 federal funds rate beginning of fiscal year 1.75 % 4.00 % 6.50 % rate decrease: first quarter (.50 ) second quarter (.50 ) (1.50 ) third quarter (.25 ) (1.00 ) fourth quarter (1.50 ) federal funds rate end of fiscal year 1.25 % 1.75 % 4.00 % three-year aaa municipal securities yields end of fiscal year 1.40 % 2.75 % 3.44 % on june 25, 2003, the federal funds rate was decreased by .25% to 1.00%. calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to, daily interest rate changes, seasonal variations in investment balances, actual duration of short-and intermediate-term investments, the proportional mix of taxable and tax-exempt investments, and changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous. subject to these factors, a 25-basis-point change generally affects the company tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. the total investment portfolio is expected to average approximately $2.90 billion in fiscal 2004. the company normal and anticipated allocation is approximately 50% invested in short-term securities with a duration of less than 30 days and 50% invested in intermediate-term municipal securities with an average duration of three years. the company estimates that the earnings effect of a 25-basis-point change in interest rates (17 basis points for tax-exempt investments) at this point in time would be approximately $3.0 million for fiscal 2004. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale investment portfolios reflected unrealized gains of $45.0 million at may 31, 2003 compared with $26.7 million at may 31, 2002 and $20.5 million at may 31, 2001. during fiscal 2003, the unrealized gain position ranged from approximately $22.3 million to $49.7 million. the range of unrealized gains in fiscal 2002 was $7.5 million to $35.9 million. the unrealized gain position of the company investment portfolios was approximately $24.9 million at july 30, 2003. as of may 31, 2003 and may 31, 2002, the company had $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value, with weighted average yields to maturity of 3.1% and 3.6%, respectively. assuming a hypothetical increase in both short-term and intermediate-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in fair value for the portfolio of securities at may 31, 2003 would be approximately $8.0 million. conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in fair value. this hypothetical decrease or increase in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity, and with no related or immediate impact to the results of operations. credit risk: the company is exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the bonds. the company attempts to limit credit risk by investing primarily in aaa- and aa- rated securities and a-1- rated short-term securities, and by limiting amounts that can be invested in any single instrument. at may 31, 2003, available-for-sale and short-term securities held at least an a-1 or equivalent rating, with approximately 99% of available-for-sale securities holding an aa rating or better. 20quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale debt securities, and corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale debt securities. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the market value of the company longer-term available-for-sale investments. the company generally directs investments towards high-credit-quality, fixed-rate municipal and government securities and manages the available-for-sale portfolio to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three years. the company does not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. the company investment portfolios and the earnings from these portfolios have been impacted by the decreasing interest rate environment, as the federal funds rate decreased from 6.50% at the end of fiscal 2000 to 1.00% at may 31, 2004. the decreasing interest rate environment has negatively affected net income growth in fiscal years 2004, 2003, and 2002, and generated significant unrealized gains for the company longer-term available-for-sale portfolio during most of the same periods. the company has mitigated some of the impact of lower interest rates on earnings by realizing gains from the sale of investments. when interest rates begin to rise, the full benefit of higher interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of long- and short-term interest rate changes, as discussed below. increases in interest rates increase earnings from the company short-term investments, which totaled approximately $1.5 billion at may 31, 2004, and over time will increase earnings from the company longer-term available-for-sale investments, which totaled approximately $1.4 billion at may 31, 2004. earnings from the available-for-sale investments, which currently have an average duration of 2.1 years, will not reflect increases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at higher rates. an increasing rate environment will generally result in a decrease in the fair value of the company investment portfolio. 25 the following table summarizes the changes in the federal funds rate over the past three fiscal years: 2004 2003 2002 federal funds rate beginning of fiscal year 1.25 % 1.75 % 4.00 % rate decrease: first quarter (.25 ) (.50 ) second quarter (.50 ) (1.50 ) third quarter (.25 ) fourth quarter federal funds rate end of fiscal year 1.00 % 1.25 % 1.75 % three-year aaa municipal securities yields end of fiscal year 2.50 % 1.40 % 2.75 % on june 29, 2004, the federal funds rate was increased to 1.25%. calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to, daily interest rate changes, seasonal variations in investment balances, actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale investments, the proportional mix of taxable and tax-exempt investments, and changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous. subject to these factors, a 25-basis-point change generally affects the company tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. the total investment portfolio is expected to average approximately $3.3 billion in fiscal 2005. the company normal and anticipated allocation is approximately 60% invested in short-term securities with an average duration of thirty days and 40% invested in available-for-sale municipal securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three years. the company estimates that the earnings effect of a 25-basis-point change in interest rates (17 basis points for tax-exempt investments) at the beginning of fiscal 2005 would be in the range of $3.5 million to $4.0 million for fiscal 2005. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale investment portfolios reflected a net unrealized loss of $4.2 million at may 31, 2004, compared with net unrealized gains of $45.0 million at may 31, 2003, and $26.7 million at may 31, 2002. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, interest rates on longer-term securities began to increase while short-term rates remained fairly consistent. the three-year aaa municipal securities yield increased to 2.50% at may 31, 2004, from 1.58% at february 29, 2004. this trend in longer-term interest rates resulted in a decrease in the fair value of the company investment portfolios, as the company $25.0 million net unrealized gain position at february 29, 2004, changed to a $4.2 million net unrealized loss position at may 31, 2004. during fiscal 2004, the net unrealized gain or loss position ranged from approximately $7.6 million net unrealized loss to $49.6 million net unrealized gain. the range of unrealized gains in fiscal 2003 was $22.3 million to $49.7 million. the net unrealized loss position of the company investment portfolios was approximately $.3 million at july 14, 2004. see note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in item 8 of this form 10-k, for additional disclosures about the company investment portfolios. as of may 31, 2004, and may 31, 2003, the company had $1.4 billion invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value, with weighted average yields to maturity of 2.3% and 3.1%, respectively. assuming a hypothetical increase in both short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in fair value for the portfolio of securities at may 31, 2004, would be in the range of $7.0 million to $7.5 million. conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in fair value. this hypothetical decrease or increase in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity and with no related or immediate impact on the results of operations. credit risk: the company is exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the bonds. the company attempts to limit credit risk by investing primarily in aaa- and aa-rated securities and a-1-rated short-term securities, and by limiting amounts that can be invested in any single instrument. at may 31, 2004, all available-for-sale and short-term securities classified as cash equivalents held an a-1 or equivalent rating, with over 99% of available-for-sale securities holding an aa rating or better. 26quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale debt securities, and corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale debt securities. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the market value of our longer-term available-for-sale investments. we generally direct investments towards high-credit-quality, fixed-rate municipal and government securities and manage the available-for-sale portfolio to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three years. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk. our investment portfolios and the earnings from these portfolios have been impacted by the fluctuations in interest rates. the federal funds rate has increased to 3.00% as of may 31, 2005. in the fiscal year ended may 31, 2005, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 2.2% compared with 1.8% for the same period last year. short-term interest rates rose steadily throughout fiscal 2005, but longer-term rates, on average, were basically unchanged from the end of fiscal 2004. while short-term and long-term interest rates generally move in the same direction, there are certain economic and liquidity conditions that will affect this relationship. when interest rates begin to rise, the full benefit of higher interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of long- and short-term interest rate changes as discussed below. the federal funds rate decreased from 6.50% at the end of fiscal 2000 to 1.00% at may 31, 2004. the decreasing interest rate environment experienced 25 table of contents through fiscal 2004 negatively affected net income growth. during most of fiscal 2004 and 2003, the decreasing rate environment generated significant unrealized gains for our longer-term available-for-sale portfolio. during fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, we mitigated some of the impact of lower interest rates on earnings by realizing gains from the sales of our investments. increases in interest rates increase earnings from our short-term investments, which totaled approximately $1.4 billion at may 31, 2005, and over time will increase earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale investments, which totaled approximately $1.8 billion at may 31, 2005. earnings from the available-for-sale-investments, which currently have an average duration of 2.1 years, excluding the impact of auction rate securities tied to short-term interest rates, will not reflect increases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at higher rates. an increasing rate environment will generally result in a decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio. the cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities at may 31, 2005, by contractual maturity are shown below. expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2005 in thousands cost fair value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 546,213 $ 545,525 due after one year through three years 807,495 800,849 due after three years through five years 290,188 287,867 due after five years 166,716 166,517 total available-for-sale securities $ 1,810,612 $ 1,800,758 the following table summarizes the changes in the federal funds rate over the past three fiscal years: 2005 2004 2003 federal funds rate beginning of fiscal year 1.00 % 1.25 % 1.75 % rate increase/(decrease): first quarter 0.50 (0.25 ) second quarter 0.50 (0.50 ) third quarter 0.50 fourth quarter 0.50 federal funds rate end of fiscal year 3.00 % 1.00 % 1.25 % three-year aaa municipal securities yields end of fiscal year 2.85 % 2.50 % 1.40 % on june 30, 2005, the federal funds rate was increased to 3.25%. calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to, daily interest rate changes, seasonal variations in investment balances, actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale investments, the proportional mix of taxable and tax-exempt investments, and changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous. subject to these factors, a 25-basis-point change generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. the total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) is expected to average approximately $3.8 billion in fiscal 2006. our normal and anticipated allocation is approximately 60% invested in short-term securities with an average duration of thirty days and 40% invested in available-for-sale municipal securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three years. we estimate that the earnings effect of a 25-basis-point change in interest rates (17 basis points for tax-exempt investments) at the beginning of fiscal 2006 would be in the range of $3.7 million to $4.2 million for fiscal 2006. 26 table of contents the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale investment portfolios reflected a net unrealized loss of $9.9 million at may 31, 2005, compared with a net unrealized loss of $4.2 million at may 31, 2004, and a net unrealized gain of $45.0 million at may 31, 2003. during fiscal 2005, the net unrealized gain or loss position ranged from a net unrealized loss of $14.4 million to a net unrealized gain of $10.6 million. during fiscal 2004, the net unrealized gain or loss position ranged from approximately $7.6 million net unrealized loss to $49.6 million net unrealized gain. the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolios was approximately $10.9 million at july 19, 2005. see note d of the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in item 8 of this form 10-k, for additional disclosures about our investment portfolios. as of may 31, 2005 and may 31, 2004, we had $1.8 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value, with weighted-average yields to maturity of 2.6% and 2.3%, respectively. assuming a hypothetical increase in both short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in fair value for our portfolio of securities at may 31, 2005, would be in the range of $7.5 million to $8.0 million. conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in fair value. this hypothetical decrease or increase in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity and with no related or immediate impact on the results of operations. credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the bonds. we attempt to limit credit risk by investing primarily in aaa- and aa-rated securities and a-1-rated short-term securities, and by limiting amounts that can be invested in any single instrument. at may 31, 2005, all available-for-sale and short-term securities classified as cash equivalents held an a-1 or equivalent rating, with over 98% of available-for-sale securities holding an aa rating or better. 27 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results and from our projections. important factors known to us that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and those contained in the safe harbor statement at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. we may make errors and omissions in providing services, which could result in significant penalties and liabilities for us: processing, tracking, collecting, and remitting client funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies, client employees, and other third parties are complex operations. these tasks could be subject to error and these errors could include, but are not limited to, late filing with applicable tax or regulatory agencies, underpayment of taxes, and failure to comply with applicable banking regulations and laws relating to employee benefits administration, which could result in significant penalties and liabilities that would adversely affect our results of operations. we could also transfer funds in error to an incorrect party or for the wrong amount, and may be unable to correct the error or recover the funds, resulting in a loss to us. our business and reputation may be affected by our ability to keep clients information confidential : our business involves the use of significant amounts of private and confidential client information including employees identification numbers, bank accounts, and retirement account information. this information is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients, and certain information may be transmitted via the internet. there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. if our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulation investigation and penalties, loss of clients business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies: many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continue to change. changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have adverse effects on our business and results of operations. we may be adversely impacted by failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions: as part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. these providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. failure by these providers, for any reason, to deliver their 8 table of contents services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. in the event of a catastrophe our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations: our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. if the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. we may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology : to maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients requirements. we continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. if our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. there can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. if we do not timely integrate and update our systems, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be an adverse impact to our business and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions: the effective integration of acquired companies may be difficult to achieve. it is also possible that we may not realize any or all expected benefits from acquisitions or achieve benefits from acquisitions in a timely manner. in addition, we may incur significant costs and management time and attention may be diverted in connection with the integration of acquisitions. failure to effectively integrate future acquisitions could affect our results of operations. we currently have no definitive agreements or current plans with respect to any material prospective acquisitions. we may have an adverse outcome of legal matters, which could harm our business: we are subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. these include disputes or potential disputes related to breach of contract, employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters. as of may 31, 2006, we have a reserve of $15.6 million for pending legal matters. see item 3 of this form 10-k for additional disclosure. in light of the legal reserve recorded, our management currently believes that resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of our operations. however, these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that their ultimate resolution could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded. we may experience a loss as the result of our clients having insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on their behalf to applicable tax or regulatory agencies and employees: as part of the payroll processing service, we are authorized by our clients to transfer money from their bank accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and applicable tax or regulatory agencies. it is possible that we would be held liable for such amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover them. we have in the past, and may in the future, make payments on our clients behalf for which we are not reimbursed, resulting in a loss to us. our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance: we receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income. we may be exposed to additional risks related to a foreign operation as a result of our business in germany : we currently have approximately 500 clients in germany. as a result, our business is subject to political and economic instability unrelated to our operations in the u.s. additionally, our business in germany exposes us to currency fluctuations and we must operate under legal and tax regulations that differ from those of the u.s. we do not currently hedge our foreign currency transactions due to the relatively 9 table of contents insignificant amounts. our entry into foreign operations requires a significant investment and management attention. there can be no assurance that our investment in germany will produce expected levels of revenue or that other factors noted previously will not harm our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: refer to item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on market risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities and corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our operating and investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the market value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. in seeking to minimize the risks and/or costs associated with such activities, we generally direct investments towards high credit quality, fixed-rate municipal and government securities and manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three years. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. our investment portfolios and the earnings from these portfolios have been impacted by the fluctuations in interest rates. the federal funds rate has increased to 5.00% as of may 31, 2006. during fiscal 2006, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 3.2% compared with 2.2% for fiscal 2005 and 1.8% for fiscal 2004. short-term rates rose steadily throughout fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006. in fiscal 2005, longer-term rates, on average, were basically unchanged from fiscal 2004, but have risen steadily in fiscal 2006. while short-term and long-term interest rates generally move in the same direction, there are certain economic and liquidity conditions that will affect this relationship. while interest rates are rising, the full benefit of higher interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of long- and short-term interest rate changes as discussed below. the federal funds rate decreased from 6.50% at may 31, 2000 to 1.00% at may 31, 2004. the decreasing interest rate environment experienced through fiscal 2004 negatively affected net income growth. during fiscal 2004, the decreasing rate environment generated significant unrealized gains for our longer-term available-for-sale securities and we were able to mitigate some of the impact of lower interest rates on earnings by realizing gains from sales of our investments. 28 table of contents increases in interest rates increase earnings from our short-term investments, and over time will increase earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from the available-for-sale securities, which currently have an average duration of 2.0 years excluding the impact of auction rate securities and vrdns that are tied to short-term interest rates, will not reflect increases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at higher rates. an increasing interest rate environment will generally result in a decrease in the market value of our investment portfolio. the cost and market value of available-for-sale securities that have stated maturities at may 31, 2006 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2006 in thousands cost market value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 545,046 $ 542,178 due after one year through three years 688,411 678,728 due after three years through five years 282,107 276,241 due after five years 2,356,196 2,352,513 total available-for-sale securities $ 3,871,760 $ 3,849,660 vrdns and auction rate securities are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities is typically twenty to thirty years. although these securities are issued as long-term securities, both are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the auction or tender feature. the following table summarizes the changes in the federal funds rate over the past three fiscal years: 2006 2005 2004 federal funds rate beginning of fiscal year 3.00 % 1.00 % 1.25 % rate increase/(decrease): first quarter 0.50 0.50 (0.25 ) second quarter 0.50 0.50 third quarter 0.50 0.50 fourth quarter 0.50 0.50 federal funds rate end of fiscal year 5.00 % 3.00 % 1.00 % three-year aaa municipal securities yields end of fiscal year 3.65 % 2.85 % 2.50 % the federal funds rate was increased to 5.25% on june 29, 2006. calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to, daily interest rate changes, seasonal variations in investment balances, actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities, the proportional mix of taxable and tax-exempt investments, and changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous. subject to these factors, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) averaged approximately $3.9 billion for the full year ended may 31, 2006. our normal and anticipated allocation is approximately 60% invested in short-term securities and available-for-sale securities that are priced and traded as short-term securities (auction rate securities and vrdns) with an average duration of thirty-five days, and 40% invested in other available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three years. based on these current assumptions, we estimate that the earnings effect of a 25-basis-point change in interest rates 29 table of contents (17 basis points for tax-exempt investments) at the beginning of fiscal 2007 would be approximately $4.5 million to $5.0 million for fiscal 2007. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized loss of $22.0 million at may 31, 2006, compared with a net unrealized loss of $9.9 million at may 31, 2005, and a net unrealized loss of $4.2 million at may 31, 2004. during fiscal 2006, the net unrealized gain or loss position ranged from a net unrealized loss of $25.2 million to $6.1 million. during fiscal 2005, the net unrealized gain or loss position ranged from approximately $14.4 million net unrealized loss to $10.6 million net unrealized gain. the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolios was approximately $23.9 million at july 20, 2006. as of may 31, 2006 and may 31, 2005, we had $3.9 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at market value. excluding auction rate securities and vrdns classified as available-for-sale securities which are tied to short-term interest rates, the weighted average yields to maturity were 3.0% and 2.6%, as of may 31, 2006 and may 31, 2005, respectively. assuming a hypothetical increase in both short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in market value for our portfolio of securities at may 31, 2006, would be approximately $8.5 million. conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in market value. this hypothetical decrease or increase in the market value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity and with no related or immediate impact on the results of operations. credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the bonds. we attempt to limit credit risk by investing primarily in aaa-and aa-rated securities and a-1- rated short-term securities, and by limiting amounts that can be invested in any single issuer. 30 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results and from our projections. important factors known to us that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and those contained in the safe harbor statement at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. we may make errors and omissions in providing services, which could result in significant penalties and liabilities for us: processing, tracking, collecting, and remitting client funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies, client employees, and other third parties are complex operations. these tasks could be subject to error and these errors could include, but are not limited to, late filing with applicable tax or regulatory agencies, underpayment of taxes, and failure to comply with applicable banking regulations and laws relating to employee benefits administration, which could result in significant penalties and liabilities that would adversely affect our results of operations. we could also transfer funds in error to an incorrect party or for the wrong amount, and may be unable to correct the error or recover the funds, resulting in a loss to us. our business and reputation may be affected by our ability to keep clients information confidential: our business involves the use of significant amounts of private and confidential client information including employees identification numbers, bank accounts, and retirement account information. this information is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients, and certain information may be transmitted via the internet. there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. if our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulation investigation and penalties, loss of clients business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies: many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continue to change. changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions: as part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. these providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. failure by these providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. in the event of a catastrophe our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations: our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. if the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. 8 table of contents we may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology: to maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients requirements. we continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. if our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. there can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. if we do integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions: from time to time we acquire other companies. the effective integration of acquired companies may be difficult to achieve. it is also possible that we may not realize any or all expected benefits from acquisitions or achieve benefits from acquisitions in a timely manner. in addition, we may incur significant costs and management time and attention may be diverted from other parts of our business in connection with the integration of acquisitions. failure to effectively integrate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we currently have no definitive agreements with respect to any material prospective acquisition. we may have an adverse outcome of legal matters, which could harm our business: we are subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. these include disputes or potential disputes related to breach of contract, employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters. as of may 31, 2007, we have a reserve of $32.5 million for pending litigation. see item 3 of this form 10-k for additional disclosure. in light of the litigation reserve recorded, our management currently believes that resolution of outstanding legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of our operations. however, legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that their ultimate resolution could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded. we may experience a loss as the result of our clients having insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on their behalf to applicable tax or regulatory agencies and employees: as part of the payroll processing service, we are authorized by our clients to transfer money from their bank accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and applicable tax or regulatory agencies. it is possible that we would be held liable for such amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover them. we have in the past, and may in the future, make payments on our clients behalf for which we are not reimbursed, resulting in a loss to us. our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance: we receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income. we may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our peo business: many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the co-employment relationship. as a result, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. although our agreements with the clients provide that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. in addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the employer under any of the state or federal laws. we may be exposed to additional risks related to foreign operations as a result of our business in germany: as of may 31, 2007, we serviced approximately 900 clients in germany. as a result, our business is subject to political and economic instability unrelated to our operations in the u.s. additionally, our business in germany exposes us to currency fluctuations, and we must operate under legal and tax regulations that differ from those of the u.s. we do not currently hedge our foreign currency transactions due to the relatively insignificant amounts. our entry into foreign operations requires a significant investment and management attention. there can be no 9 table of contents assurance that our investment in germany will produce expected levels of revenue or that other factors noted previously will not harm our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: refer to item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on market risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our operating and investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially effect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the market value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. in seeking to minimize the risks and/or costs associated with such activities, we generally direct investments towards high credit quality, fixed-rate municipal and government securities and manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three years. we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. our investment portfolios and the earnings from these portfolios have been impacted by the fluctuations in interest rates. during fiscal 2007, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 4.0% compared with 3.2% for fiscal 2006 and 2.2% for fiscal 2005. short-term rates rose steadily throughout fiscal 2006, with the federal funds rate increasing 200 basis points to 5.00% as of may 31, 2006. the federal funds rate increased 25 basis points in fiscal 2007 and was 5.25% as of may 31, 2007. while interest rates are rising, the full benefit of higher interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of long- and short-term interest rate changes as discussed below. during a rising interest rate environment, the increases in interest rates increase earnings from our short-term investments, and over time will increase earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from the available-for-sale securities, which as of may 31, 2007 had an average duration of 2.5 years, excluding the impact of auction rate securities and vrdns that are tied to short-term interest rates, would not reflect increases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at higher rates. the cost and market value of available-for-sale securities that have stated maturities as of may 31, 2007 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2007 in millions cost market value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 506.0 $ 504.8 due after one year through three years 498.0 493.0 due after three years through five years 687.6 682.8 due after five years 3,247.0 3,243.1 total $ 4,938.6 $ 4,923.7 vrdns and auction rate securities are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. although these securities are issued as long- term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the auction or tender feature. 29 table of contents the following table summarizes the changes in the federal funds rate over the past three fiscal years: 2007 2006 2005 federal funds rate beginning of fiscal year 5.00 % 3.00 % 1.00 % rate increase: first quarter 0.25 0.50 0.50 second quarter 0.50 0.50 third quarter 0.50 0.50 fourth quarter 0.50 0.50 federal funds rate end of fiscal year 5.25 % 5.00 % 3.00 % three-year aaa municipal securities yields end of fiscal year 3.71 % 3.65 % 2.85 % calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: daily interest rate changes; seasonal variations in investment balances; actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities; the proportional mix of taxable and tax-exempt investments; and changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous. subject to these factors, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) averaged approximately $4.4 billion for fiscal 2007. our normal and anticipated allocation is approximately 60% invested in short-term securities and available-for-sale securities with an average duration of 35 days, and 40% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three years. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized loss position of $14.9 million as of may 31, 2007, compared with a net unrealized loss position of $22.0 million as of may 31, 2006. during fiscal 2007, the net unrealized loss position ranged from $29.5 million to $1.1 million. during fiscal 2006, the net unrealized loss position ranged from $25.2 million to $6.1 million. the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolios was approximately $19.2 million as of july 13, 2007. as of may 31, 2007 and may 31, 2006, we had $5.0 billion and $3.9 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at market value. excluding auction rate securities and vrdns classified as available-for-sale securities which are tied to short-term interest rates, the weighted-average yields to maturity were 3.7% and 3.0%, as of may 31, 2007 and may 31, 2006, respectively. assuming a hypothetical increase in both short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential decrease in market value for our portfolio of securities as of may 31, 2007, would be approximately $12.0 million. conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest rates would result in a comparable increase in market value. this hypothetical decrease or increase in the market value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity. these fluctuations in market value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in market value were considered to be other-than-temporary. credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with our available-for-sale securities from the possible inability of borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. we attempt to mitigate this risk by investing primarily in high credit quality securities with aaa and aa ratings, and short-term securities with an a-1 rating, and by limiting amounts that can be invested in any single issuer. 30 table of contentsrisk factors our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results and from our projections. important factors known to us that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and those contained in the safe harbor statement at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. we may make errors and omissions in providing services, which could result in significant penalties and liabilities for us: processing, tracking, collecting, and remitting client funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies, client employees, and other third parties are complex operations. these tasks could be subject to error and these errors could include, but are not limited to, late filing with applicable tax or regulatory agencies, underpayment of taxes, and failure to comply with applicable banking regulations and laws relating to employee benefits administration, which could result in significant penalties and liabilities that would adversely affect our results of operations. we could also transfer funds in error to an incorrect party or for the wrong amount, and may be unable to correct the error or recover the funds, resulting in a loss to us. our business and reputation may be affected by our ability to keep clients information confidential: our business involves the use of significant amounts of private and confidential client information including employees identification numbers, bank accounts, and retirement account information. this information is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients, and certain information may be transmitted via the internet. there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. if our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulation investigation and penalties, loss of clients business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies: many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continue to change. changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions: as part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. these service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. in the event of a catastrophe our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations: our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. if the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. 8 table of contents we may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology: to maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients requirements. we continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. if our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. there can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. if we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions: from time to time we acquire other companies. the effective integration of acquired companies may be difficult to achieve. it is also possible that we may not realize any or all expected benefits from acquisitions or achieve benefits from acquisitions in a timely manner. in addition, we may incur significant costs and management time and attention may be diverted from other parts of our business in connection with the integration of acquisitions. failure to effectively integrate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may have an adverse outcome of legal matters, which could harm our business: we are subject to various claims and legal matters that arise in the normal course of business. these include disputes or potential disputes related to breach of contract, employment-related claims, tax claims, and other matters. as of may 31, 2008, we have a reserve of $23.0 million for pending litigation. refer to item 3 of this form 10-k for additional disclosure regarding legal proceedings. in light of the litigation reserve recorded, our management currently believes that resolution of outstanding legal matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of our operations. however, legal matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and there exists the possibility that their ultimate resolution could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations in the period in which any such effect is recorded. we may experience a loss as the result of our clients having insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on their behalf to applicable tax or regulatory agencies and employees: as part of the payroll processing service, we are authorized by our clients to transfer money from their bank accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and applicable tax or regulatory agencies. it is possible that we would be held liable for such amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover them. we have made in the past, and may make in the future, payments on our clients behalf for which we are not reimbursed, resulting in a loss to us. our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance: we receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income. we may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our peo business: many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the co-employment relationship. as a result, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. although our agreements with the clients provide that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. in addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the employer under any of the state or federal laws. we may be exposed to additional risks related to foreign operations as a result of our business in germany: as of may 31, 2008, we serviced approximately 1,200 clients in germany. as a result, our business is subject to political and economic instability unrelated to our operations in the u.s. additionally, our business in germany exposes us to currency fluctuations, and we must operate under legal and tax regulations that differ from those of the u.s. we do not currently hedge our foreign currency transactions due to the relatively insignificant amounts. our entry into foreign operations requires a significant investment and management attention. there can be no 9 table of contents assurance that our investment in germany will produce expected levels of revenue or that other factors noted previously will not harm our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: refer to item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on market risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our operating and investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially effect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. in seeking to minimize the risks and/or costs associated with such activities, we generally direct investments towards high credit quality securities with aaa and aa ratings and short-term securities with a-1/p-1 ratings. we manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three years. as of may 31, 2008, we had no exposure to any sub-prime mortgage securities, auction rate securities, asset-backed securities or asset-backed commercial paper, collateralized debt obligations, enhanced cash or cash plus mutual funds, or structured investment vehicles (sivs). we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. we exited the auction rate market in the early fall of 2007 and have never experienced a failed auction. our vrdns are rated a-1/p-1 and must have a liquidity facility issued by highly rated financial institutions. our current exposure to vrdn bond insurers is limited to fsa. our investment portfolios and the earnings from these portfolios have been impacted by the fluctuations in interest rates. during fiscal 2008, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 3.7% compared with 4.0% for fiscal 2007 and 3.2% for fiscal 2006. the federal funds rate decreased 325 basis points in fiscal 2008 and was 2.00% as of may 31, 2008. this compares to an increase in the federal funds rate of 25 basis points in fiscal 2007 and 200 basis points in fiscal 2006. a lower federal funds rate impacts the average interest rate we earn on our portfolios. while interest rates are falling, the full impact of lower interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of long- and short-term interest rate changes. during a falling interest rate environment, the decreases in interest rates decrease earnings from our short-term investments, and over time will decrease earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from the available-for-sale securities, which as of may 31, 2008 had an average duration of 2.7 years, excluding the impact of vrdns tied to short-term interest rates, would not reflect decreases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at lower rates. the cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of may 31, 2008 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2008 in millions cost fair value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 230.9 $ 231.7 due after one year through three years 689.8 699.0 due after three years through five years 501.3 509.2 due after five years 1,906.8 1,913.6 total $ 3,328.8 $ 3,353.5 vrdns are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. 30 table of contents the following table summarizes the changes in the federal funds rate over the past three fiscal years: 2008 2007 2006 federal funds rate beginning of fiscal year 5.25 % 5.00 % 3.00 % rate increase: first quarter 0.25 0.50 second quarter (0.75 ) 0.50 third quarter (1.50 ) 0.50 fourth quarter (1.00 ) 0.50 federal funds rate end of fiscal year 2.00 % 5.25 % 5.00 % three-year aaa municipal securities yields end of fiscal year 2.65 % 3.71 % 3.65 % calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: daily interest rate changes; seasonal variations in investment balances; actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities; the proportional mix of taxable and tax-exempt investments; and changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous. subject to these factors, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) averaged approximately $4.1 billion for fiscal 2008. our normal and anticipated allocation is approximately 55% invested in short-term securities and available-for-sale securities with an average duration of 35 days, and 45% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three years. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized gain of $24.8 million as of may 31, 2008, compared with a net unrealized loss of $14.9 million as of may 31, 2007. the change resulted from decreases in long-term market interest rates. during fiscal 2008, the investment portfolios ranged from a net unrealized loss of $24.3 million to a net unrealized gain of $48.7 million. during fiscal 2007, the net unrealized loss ranged from $29.5 million to $1.1 million. the net unrealized gain of our investment portfolios was approximately $23.3 million as of july 11, 2008. as of may 31, 2008 and may 31, 2007, we had $3.4 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 3.4% and 3.7%, as of may 31, 2008 and may 31, 2007, respectively. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates such as auction securities and vrdns. assuming a hypothetical decrease in both short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential increase in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of may 31, 2008, would be approximately $12.0 million. conversely, a corresponding increase in interest rates would result in a comparable decrease in fair value. this hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity. these fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary. credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. we attempt to mitigate this risk by investing primarily in high credit quality securities with aaa and aa ratings and short-term securities with a-1/p-1 ratings, and by limiting amounts that can be invested in any single issuer. 31 table of contentsrisk factors and throughout part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of this annual report on form 10-k ( form 10-k ), as well as in our periodic filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec or commission ), could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results. the information provided in this form 10-k is based upon the facts and circumstances known at this time, and any forward-looking statement made by us in this form 10-k speaks only as of the date on which it is made. we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements after the date of filing of this form 10-k with the sec to reflect events or circumstances after such date, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. item 1. business we are a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. as of may 31, 2012, we serviced approximately 567,000 clients, including approximately 2,000 clients through four offices in germany. we maintain our corporate headquarters in rochester, new york, and have more than 100 offices nationwide. our company was formed as a delaware corporation in 1979. we report our results of operations and financial condition as one business segment. our fiscal year ends may 31. company strategy we are focused on achieving strong, long-term financial performance by: providing high-quality, timely, accurate, and affordable comprehensive payroll and integrated human resource services; delivering these services utilizing a well-trained and responsive work force through a network of local and corporate offices servicing more than 100 of the largest markets in the u.s. and in germany; growing our client base, primarily through the efforts of our direct sales force; continually improving client service to maximize client retention; capitalizing on the growth opportunities within our existing client base and from new clients by increasing utilization of our payroll and human resource ancillary services and products; capitalizing on and leveraging our highly developed technology and operating infrastructure; investing in our business through expansion of our service and product offerings to continually add value for our clients; and supplementing our growth through strategic acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise. services and products we offer a comprehensive portfolio of services and products that allow our clients to meet their diverse payroll and human resource needs. these include: payroll processing; payroll tax administration services; employee payment services; regulatory compliance services (new-hire reporting and garnishment processing); paychex hr solutions; retirement services administration; insurance services; eservices; and other human resource services and products. 2 table of contents by offering ancillary services that leverage the information gathered in the base payroll processing service, we are able to provide comprehensive outsourcing services that allow employers to expand their employee benefits offerings at an affordable cost. we mainly earn our revenue through recurring fees for services performed. service revenue is primarily driven by the number of clients, checks or transactions per client per pay period, and utilization of ancillary services. payroll payroll processing is the foundation of our service portfolio. our payroll service includes the calculation, preparation, and delivery of employee payroll checks; production of internal accounting records and management reports; preparation of federal, state, and local payroll tax returns; and collection and remittance of clients payroll obligations. our payroll services are provided through either our core payroll or major market services ( mms ) and are made available to clients via traditional or internet-based methods. major market services: mms primarily targets companies that have more sophisticated payroll and benefits needs. we currently offer this service in all of our significant markets. our proprietary mms software, preview &reg; , provides a powerful payroll solution and allows smooth integration with other paychex service offerings. preview can be used as an on-site, pc-based system or via a secure web-hosted environment. we offer a software-as-a-service ( saas ) solution to meet the payroll and human resource administrative needs of our mms clients. this allows preview to be integrated with various internet-based services offered to assist clients with their administrative human resource and payroll needs through every step of the employee life cycle. ancillary services particularly beneficial to our mms clients include the following: paychex hr online, our internet-based human resource management system, offers powerful tools for managing employee benefits, personnel information, and critical human resource compliance and reporting needs. in addition, its self-service features allow for better communication between management and employees. benetrac, our employee benefits management and administration system, provides our mms clients a simple, accurate, and cost-effective solution for streamlined benefits management. paychex time and labor online makes the time and attendance process more efficient. this solution can reduce time spent on preparing timesheets, minimize redundant data entry, increase awareness of critical labor information, and aid in compliance with federal time recording requirements. paychex expense manager is an integrated payroll and expense management solution that allows clients to control discretionary spending while giving employees an easy-to-use, secure tool to prepare and submit expense reports online. applicant tracking, offered through our partnership with taleo corporation, provides our mms clients with a tool to manage their recruiting process in order to better hire and retain talented employees. online payroll services: our core payroll clients can opt to use paychex online, our secure internet site, which offers a suite of self-service, interactive services and products twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. these include paychex online payroll &reg; , internet time sheet, paychex online reports, and general ledger reporting service. using these services, clients can communicate payroll information, access current and historical payroll information, and transfer payroll information calculated by us to their general ledger accounting software, eliminating manual entries and improving the accuracy of bookkeeping. in addition, we offer self-service and mobile applications for small business through our surepayroll, inc. ( surepayroll ) saas product offering. mms clients can select paychex one-source solutions, which seamlessly integrates preview, paychex time and labor online, and paychex hr online applications through a single, web-based client portal. mms clients also have the option to select from a number of &aacute; la carte payroll and human resource ancillary services or opt for our comprehensive human resource and payroll outsourcing solution, paychex hr solutions. this flexibility allows our clients to define the solution that best meets their particular needs. 3 table of contents during fiscal 2012, we introduced enhancements to our saas offerings through a single sign-on and landing page and our paychex online mobile applications. our mobility apps are now available for ipad &reg; and android tablets and smartphones, and allow our clients and their employees to have full access to our products, offering diverse capabilities for both the employer and employee. payroll tax administration services: as of may 31, 2012, nearly all of our clients utilized our payroll tax administration services (including taxpay &reg; ), which provide accurate preparation and timely filing of quarterly and year-end tax returns, as well as the electronic transfer of funds to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies (federal, state, and local). in connection with these services, we electronically collect payroll taxes from clients bank accounts, typically on payday, prepare and file the applicable tax returns, and remit taxes to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies on the respective due dates. these taxes are typically paid between one and 30 days after receipt of collections from clients, with some items extending to 90 days. we handle regulatory correspondence, amendments, and penalty and interest disputes, and we are subject to cash penalties imposed by tax or regulatory agencies for late filings and late or under payment of taxes. employee payment services: as of may 31, 2012, 82% of our clients utilized our employee payment services, which provide the employer the option of paying their employees by direct deposit, payroll debit card, a check drawn on a paychex account (readychex &reg; ), or a check drawn on the employer account and electronically signed by us. for the first three methods, we electronically collect net payroll from the clients bank accounts, typically one business day before payday, and provide payment to the employees on payday. our flexible payment options provide a cost-effective solution that offers the benefit of convenient, one-step payroll account reconciliation for employers. regulatory compliance services: we offer new-hire reporting services, which enable clients to comply with federal and state requirements to report information on newly hired employees. this information aids the government in enforcing child support orders and minimizes fraudulent unemployment and workers compensation insurance claims. our garnishment processing service provides deductions from employees pay, forwards payments to third-party agencies, including those that require electronic payments, and tracks the obligations to fulfillment. these services enable employers to comply with legal requirements and reduce the risk of penalties. human resource services paychex hr solutions: we offer comprehensive human resource outsourcing solutions that provide businesses a full-service approach to the outsourcing of employer and employee administrative needs. our paychex hr solutions offering is available as an administrative services organization ( aso ) and a professional employer organization ( peo ). both options offer businesses a combined package of services that includes payroll, employer compliance, human resource and employee benefits administration, risk management outsourcing, and the on-site availability of a professionally trained human resource representative. these comprehensive bundles of services are designed to make it easier for businesses to manage their payroll and related benefit costs while providing a benefits package equal to that of larger companies. our peo differs from the aso in that we serve as a co-employer of the clients employees, assume the risks and rewards of workers compensation insurance, and provide health care coverage to peo client employees. peo services continue to be sold through our registered and licensed subsidiary, paychex business solutions, inc. the integration of the sales and service models of the aso and peo under paychex hr solutions has reduced redundancies and created more flexible options for business owners to find the solution that best meets their needs. in fiscal 2011, we introduced paychex hr essentials, which is an aso product that provides support to our clients over the phone or online to help manage employee-related topics. as of may 31, 2012, paychex hr solutions were utilized by 23,000 clients with approximately 615,000 client employees. retirement services administration: our retirement services product line offers a variety of options to clients, including 401(k) plans, 401(k) simple, simple ira, 401(k) plans with safe harbor provisions, profit sharing plans, and money purchase plans. these services provide plan implementation, ongoing compliance with government regulations, employee and employer reporting, participant and employer online access, electronic funds transfer, and other administrative services. auto enrollment is an optional plan feature allowing employers to automatically enroll employees in their company 401(k) plan and increase overall plan participation. clients 4 table of contents have the ability to choose from a group of pre-defined fund selections or to customize their investment options within their plan. selling efforts for these services are focused primarily on our existing payroll client base, as the processed payroll information allows for data integration necessary to provide these services efficiently. we are one of the largest 401(k) recordkeepers for small businesses in the u.s. for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, we earned an average fee between twenty and twenty-five basis points from the external fund managers based on the total asset value of client employee 401(k) funds. in may 2011, we acquired eplan services, inc., a provider of recordkeeping and administrative solutions to the defined contribution marketplace. this acquisition allows us to expand our retirement services to financial advisors. as of may 31, 2012, retirement services were utilized by approximately 59,000 clients and the asset value of client employee 401(k) funds externally managed totaled approximately $15.7 billion. insurance services: our licensed insurance agency, paychex insurance agency, inc. ( pia ), provides insurance through a variety of carriers. insurance offerings include property and casualty coverage such as workers compensation; business-owner policies; commercial auto; and health and benefits coverage, including health, dental, vision, and life. our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client needs. with access to numerous top national and regional carriers, our professional insurance agents enjoy a wide selection of plans from which to best match the insurance needs of small businesses. clients also have the option to integrate with paychex payroll processing for easy, accurate plan administration. pia has a website, www.paychexinsurance.com , with information and interactive tools to help educate visitors on insurance and aid in making business insurance decisions. as of may 31, 2012, approximately 107,000 clients have appointed pia as their agent for servicing their business insurance needs. eservices: we offer online human resource administration software products for employee benefits management and administration and time and attendance solutions. paychex hr online offers powerful tools for managing employee benefits, personnel information, and human resource compliance and reporting. time and labor online helps minimize the time spent compiling time sheet information. it allows the employer to handle multiple payroll scenarios and results in improved productivity, accuracy, and reliability in the payroll process. other human resource services and products: we offer the outsourcing of plan administration under section 125 of the internal revenue code, allowing employees to use pre-tax dollars to pay for certain health insurance benefits and health and dependent care expenses not covered by insurance. all required implementation, administration, compliance, claims processing and reimbursement, and coverage tests are provided with these services. we offer state unemployment insurance services, which provide clients with prompt processing for all claims, appeals, determinations, change statements, and requests for separation documents. other human resource services products include employee handbooks, management manuals, and personnel and required regulatory forms. these products are designed to simplify clients office processes and enhance their employee benefits programs. sales and marketing we market our services primarily through our direct sales force based in the metropolitan markets we serve, with sales representatives specializing within our portfolio of services. our sales representatives are also supported by marketing, advertising, public relations, trade shows, and telemarketing programs. in recent years, we have increased our emphasis on the selling of ancillary services and products to both new clients and our existing client base. in addition to our direct selling and marketing efforts, we utilize relationships with existing clients, certified public accountants ( cpas ), and banks for new client referrals. approximately 60% of our new core payroll clients (excluding business acquisitions) come from these referral sources. to further enhance our strong relationship with cpas, we have partnered with the american institute of certified public accountants ( aicpa ) since 2003 and through september 2016 as the preferred payroll provider for its aicpa business solutions partner program. our website at www.paychex.com , which includes online payroll sales presentations and service and product information, is a cost-efficient tool that serves as a source of leads and new sales while complementing the efforts of our direct sales force. this online tool allows us to market to clients in other areas. in addition, our 5 table of contents insurance services website at www.paychexinsurance.com provides information to help small businesses navigate the insurance industry, and generates leads by allowing interested parties to get in contact with one of our professional insurance agents. in addition, advantage payroll services inc. ( advantage ), a wholly owned subsidiary of paychex, inc., has license agreements with independently owned associate offices ( associates ), which are responsible for selling and marketing advantage payroll services and performing certain operational functions, while paychex and advantage provide all centralized back-office payroll processing and payroll tax administration services. the marketing and selling by the associates is conducted under their own logos. paychex also builds on its reputation as an expert in the payroll and human resources industry by providing education and assistance to clients and other interested parties. we provide free webinars, white papers, and other information on our website to aid existing and prospective clients with the impact of regulatory changes. we track current regulatory issues that impact the small business community and provide a monthly regulatory update. in an effort to help entrepreneurs and small-business owners achieve success, in fiscal 2012 we launched a new website, buildmybiz.com , that provides tools and resources for starting, growing, and managing a business. markets and competition we remain focused on servicing small- to medium-sized businesses based upon the growth potential that we believe exists in the markets we serve. industry data indicates there are approximately ten million employers in the geographic markets that we currently serve within the u.s. of those employers, greater than 99% have fewer than 100 employees and are our primary customers and target market. we serve a diverse base of small- to medium-sized clients operating in a broad range of industries located throughout the u.s. and in germany. as of may 31, 2012, we serviced approximately 567,000 payroll clients. we utilize service agreements and arrangements with clients that are generally terminable by the client at any time or upon relatively short notice. for fiscal 2012, client retention was approximately 80% of our beginning client base, up from 79% for fiscal 2011. no single client has a material impact on total service revenue or results of operations. the composition of the u.s. market and the client base we serve by number of employees is as follows: business size (number of employees) estimated market distribution (1) paychex, inc. distribution of client base 1-4 83% 42% 5-19 13% 40% 20-49 2% 12% 50-99 1% 4% 100+ 1% 2% (1) based on currently available market data from dun &amp; bradstreet. the market for payroll processing and human resource services is highly competitive and fragmented. our primary national competitor, adp &reg; ( automatic data processing, inc. ), is the largest u.s. third-party provider of payroll processing and human resource services in terms of revenue. we compete with other national, regional, local, and online service providers, all of which we believe have significantly smaller client bases than us. in addition to traditional payroll processing and human resource service providers, we compete with in-house payroll and human resource systems and departments. payroll and human resource systems and software are sold by many vendors. our human resource services also compete with a variety of providers of human resource services, such as retirement services companies, insurance companies, and human resources and benefits consulting firms. competition in the payroll processing and human resource services industry is primarily based on service responsiveness, product quality and reputation, breadth of service and product offering, and price. we believe we are competitive in each of these areas. 6 table of contents software maintenance and development the ever-changing mandates of federal, state, and local tax and regulatory agencies require us to regularly update the proprietary software we utilize to provide payroll and human resource services to our clients. we are continually engaged in developing enhancements to and the maintenance of our various software platforms to meet the changing requirements of our clients and the marketplace. in fiscal 2010, we completed implementation of an enhanced platform for our core payroll processing capability, which allows us to leverage efficiencies in our processes and continue to provide excellent customer service. our paychex next generation platform, with its suite of innovative products, is expanding these enhancements to our additional service offerings over the next few years. employees as of may 31, 2012, we employed approximately 12,400 people. none of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. intellectual property we own or license and use a number of trademarks, trade names, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, computer programs and software, and other intellectual property rights. taken as a whole, our intellectual property rights are material to the conduct of our business. where it is determined to be appropriate, we take measures to protect our intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements or policies with employees, vendors, and others; license agreements with licensees and licensors of intellectual property; and registration of certain trademarks. we believe that the paychex name, trademark, and logo are of material importance to us. seasonality there is no significant seasonality to our business. however, during our third fiscal quarter, which ends in february, the number of new payroll clients, new retirement services clients, and new paychex hr solutions worksite employees tends to be higher than during the rest of the fiscal year, primarily because a majority of new clients begin using our services at the beginning of a calendar year. in addition, calendar year-end transaction processing and client funds activity are traditionally higher during our third fiscal quarter due to clients paying year-end bonuses and requesting additional year-end services. historically, as a result of these factors, our total revenue has been slightly higher in our third fiscal quarter, with greater sales commission expenses also reported in the third quarter. other we are subject to the informational requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ). therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the sec. such reports may be read and copied at the sec public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. information regarding the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at (800) sec-0330. the sec also maintains a website ( www.sec.gov ) that includes our reports, proxy statements, and other information. information about our services and products, stockholder information, press releases, and filings with the sec can be found on our website at www.paychex.com . our form 10-ks, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and other sec filings, as well as any amendments to such reports and filings, are made available, free of charge, under the corporate tab, in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed with, or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act to the sec. also, copies of our annual report to stockholders and proxy statement, to be issued in connection with our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, will be made available, free of charge, upon written request submitted to paychex, inc., c/o corporate secretary, 911 panorama trail south, rochester, new york 14625-2396. 7 table of contents item 1a. risk factors our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results, and from our projections. risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our business and are important to understanding our business. the risks described below are not the only risks we face. additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect, to a material extent, our business, cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. in addition, you should refer to the description of forward-looking statements at the beginning of part i of this form 10-k. our services may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies: many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that continually change. changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. failure to educate and assist our clients regarding new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse impact on our reputation. failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our clients and our business could be adversely impacted by health care reform: the patient protection and affordable care act (the ppaca ) was enacted on march 23, 2010. the ppaca was subsequently modified by the heath care and education reconciliation act of 2010 on march 30, 2010 (together with ppaca hereafter referred to as the act ). the act entails sweeping health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 through 2018, and many provisions of the act require the issuance of additional guidance from the u.s. departments of labor and heath &amp; human services, the internal revenue service (the irs ), and the states. the complexity of federal and state regulations facing employers has continued to increase over time, including the enactment of the act. as a service provider, we have a responsibility to our clients to help them understand and adapt to these increased regulations. however, we are currently unable to determine the impacts to our clients and our business of the required plan changes and provisions resulting from the act. also, as a co-employer in our peo, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities and assist our clients in complying with many employment-related governmental regulations. within this business, the changes may result in increased costs, limit or delay our ability to increase service fees to offset such increased costs, and could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance: we receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies would adversely impact this interest income. we may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our products and services: to maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. our future success will depend on our ability to enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal use systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients requirements. we continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. if our systems become outdated, we may be at a disadvantage when competing in our industry. there can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. if we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. 8 table of contents our business and reputation may be affected by security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure, which could compromise company and customer information: we rely upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to support a variety of business processes. vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. while we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of security measures and constantly updating and adapting security requirements, our networks, products, and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. if we experience a problem with the functioning of key systems or a security breach of our systems, the resulting disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business involves the use of significant amounts of private and confidential client information including employees identification numbers, bank accounts, and retirement account information. this information is critical to the accurate and timely provision of services to our clients, and certain information may be transmitted via the internet. this information could be compromised by a cyber attack. there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. if our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, both the company and our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by disruptions or security breaches in the future. such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulation investigation and penalties, loss of clients business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions: as part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. these service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. we may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our peo business: many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the co-employment relationship. as a result, there is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. although our agreements with the clients provide that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. in addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the employer under any applicable state or federal laws. we may be adversely impacted by changes in health insurance and workers compensation rates and underlying claims trends: within our peo business, we maintain health and workers compensation insurance covering worksite employees. the insurance costs are impacted by claims experience and are a significant portion of our peo direct costs. if we experience a sudden and unexpected increase in claims activity, our costs could increase. in addition, in the event of expiration or cancellation of existing contracts, we may not be able to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms. increases in costs not incorporated into service fees timely or fully, could have a material adverse effect. incorporating cost increases into service fees could also impact our ability to attract and retain clients. we may be adversely impacted by volatility in the financial and economic environment: during periods of weak economic conditions, employment levels tend to decrease and interest rates may become more volatile. these conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. in addition, new business formation may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. the interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. in addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of 9 table of contents investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. we historically have not borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet liquidity needs. however, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. if all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations: our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, severe weather including events resulting from climate change, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. our business continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of severe weather, including floods and snowstorms, and has been successful. however, these past successes are not an indicator of success in the future. if the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk: refer to item 7a of this form 10-k for a discussion on market risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk factors changes in interest rates and interest rate risk: funds held for clients are primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale securities. corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale securities. as a result of our investing activities, we are exposed to changes in interest rates that may materially affect our results of operations and financial position. changes in interest rates will impact the earnings potential of future investments and will cause fluctuations in the fair value of our longer-term available-for-sale securities. we follow an investment strategy of protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. a substantial portion of our portfolios is invested in high credit quality securities with aaa and aa ratings and a-1/p-1 ratings on short-term securities. we invest predominately in municipal bonds general obligation bonds; pre-refunded bonds, which are secured by a u.s. government escrow; and essential services revenue bonds. we limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair value is less sensitive to interest rate changes. we manage the available-for-sale securities to a benchmark duration of two and one-half to three years. during fiscal 2012, our primary short-term investment vehicles were vrdns and fdic-insured deposit accounts. we have no exposure to high-risk or illiquid investments such as auction rate securities, sub-prime mortgage securities, asset-backed securities or asset-backed commercial paper, collateralized debt obligations, enhanced cash or cash plus mutual funds, or structured investment vehicles (sivs). we have insignificant exposure to european investments. we have not and do not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk. during fiscal 2012, the average interest rate earned on our combined funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios was 1.1%, compared with 1.3% for fiscal 2011 and 1.5% for fiscal 2010. when interest rates are falling, the full impact of lower interest rates will not immediately be reflected in net income due to the interaction of short- and long-term interest rate changes. during a falling interest rate environment, the decreases in interest rates decrease earnings from our short-term investments, and over time decrease earnings from our longer-term available-for-sale securities. earnings from the available-for-sale-securities, which as of may 31, 2012 had an average duration of 3.0 years, would not reflect decreases in interest rates until the investments are sold or mature and the proceeds are reinvested at lower rates. in the next twelve months, approximately 15% to 20% of our available-for-sale portfolio will mature, and it is currently anticipated that these proceeds will be reinvested at a lower average interest rate of approximately 1.1%. 28 table of contents the amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities that had stated maturities as of may 31, 2012 are shown below by contractual maturity. expected maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties. may 31, 2012 in millions amortized cost fair value maturity date: due in one year or less $ 323.1 $ 325.8 due after one year through three years 619.6 641.0 due after three years through five years 630.2 655.7 due after five years 1,426.6 1,436.5 total $ 2,999.5 $ 3,059.0 vrdns are primarily categorized as due after five years in the table above as the contractual maturities on these securities are typically 20 to 30 years. although these securities are issued as long-term securities, they are priced and traded as short-term instruments because of the liquidity provided through the tender feature. the federal funds rate remained at a range of zero to 0.25% throughout fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010. calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many factors. these factors include, but are not limited to: daily interest rate changes; seasonal variations in investment balances; actual duration of short-term and available-for-sale securities; the proportion of taxable and tax-exempt investments; changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous; and financial market volatility and the resulting effect on benchmark and other indexing interest rates. subject to these factors and under normal financial market conditions, a 25-basis-point change in taxable interest rates generally affects our tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points. under normal financial market conditions, the impact to earnings from a 25-basis-point change in short-term interest rates would be in the range of $3.5 million to $4.0 million, after taxes, for a twelve-month period. such a basis point change may or may not be tied to changes in the federal funds rate. our total investment portfolio (funds held for clients and corporate investments) averaged approximately $4.3 billion for fiscal 2012. our anticipated allocation is approximately 50% invested in short-term securities and vrdns with an average duration of less than 30 days, and 50% invested in available-for-sale securities with an average duration of two and one-half to three years. for fiscal 2013, we anticipate our average duration on our available-for-sale securities will increase to over three years. the combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale securities reflected a net unrealized gain of $59.5 million as of may 31, 2012, compared with an unrealized gain of $59.3 million as of may 31, 2011. in determining fair value, we utilize the interactive data pricing service. during fiscal 2012, the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $46.4 million to $72.5 million. during fiscal 2011, the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $41.4 million to $86.2 million. the net unrealized gain of our investment portfolios was approximately $58.0 million as of july 13, 2012. as of may 31, 2012 and 2011, we had $3.1 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale securities at fair value. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity was 2.2% and 2.6% as of may 31, 2012 and may 31, 2011, respectively. the weighted-average yield-to-maturity excludes available-for-sale securities tied to short-term interest rates such as the vrdns held as of may 31, 2012 and 2011. assuming a hypothetical decrease 29 table of contents in both short-term and longer-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential increase in fair value for our portfolio of available-for-sale securities as of may 31, 2012, would be approximately $16.0 million. conversely, a corresponding increase in interest rates would result in a comparable decrease in fair value. this hypothetical increase or decrease in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an adjustment to the portfolio recorded value, with an offsetting amount recorded in stockholders equity. these fluctuations in fair value would have no related or immediate impact on the results of operations, unless any declines in fair value were considered to be other-than-temporary and an impairment loss recognized. credit risk: we are exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the possible inability of borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. we regularly review our investment portfolios to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired due to changes in credit risk or other potential valuation concerns. we believe that the investments we held as of may 31, 2012 were not other-than-temporarily impaired. while $180.0 million of our available-for-sale securities had fair values that were below amortized cost, we believe that it is probable that the principal and interest will be collected in accordance with the contractual terms, and that the unrealized loss of $0.3 million was due to changes in interest rates and was not due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns. substantially all of the securities in an unrealized loss position as of may 31, 2012 and 2011 held an aa rating or better. we do not intend to sell these investments until the recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity, and further believe that it is not more-likely-than-not that we will be required to sell these investments prior to that time. our assessment that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired could change in the future due to new developments or changes in our strategies or assumptions related to any particular investment. 30 table of contents