risk factors 20 risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. if any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under &ldquo;cautionary statement concerning forward&ndash;looking statements.&rdquo; 20 table of contents risks related to the company terrorist acts, armed conflict and threats thereof, acts of piracy, and other international events impacting the security of travel could adversely affect the demand for cruises. the threat or possibility of future terrorist acts, an outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict abroad or the possibility or fear of such events, political unrest and instability, the issuance of travel advisories or elevated national threat warnings by national governments, an increase in the activity of pirates, and other geo-political uncertainties have had in the past and may again in the future have an adverse impact on the demand for cruises, and consequently, the pricing for cruises. decreases in demand and reduced pricing in response to such decreased demand would adversely affect our business by reducing our profitability. adverse incidents involving cruise ships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships carries an inherent risk of loss caused by adverse weather conditions and maritime disasters, including, but not limited to, oil spills and other environmental mishaps, extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods and typhoons, fire, mechanical failure, collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action, civil unrest and insurrection in various countries and other circumstances or events. any such event may result in loss of life or property, loss of revenue or increased costs. the operation of cruise ships also involves the risk of other incidents at sea or while in port, including missing guests, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior and onboard crimes, which may bring into question passenger safety, may adversely affect future industry performance and may lead to litigation against us. although we place passenger safety as the highest priority in the design and operation of our fleet, we have experienced accidents and other incidents involving our cruise ships and there can be no assurance that similar events will not occur in the future. it is possible that we could be forced to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these factors or incur increased port-related and other costs resulting from such adverse events. any such event involving our cruise ships or other passenger cruise ships may adversely affect guests&rsquo; perceptions of safety or result in increased governmental or other regulatory oversight. an adverse judgment or settlement in respect of any of the ongoing claims against us may also lead to negative publicity about us. anything that damages our reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about passenger safety, could have an adverse impact on demand, which could lead to price discounting and a reduction in our sales and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if there is a significant accident, mechanical failure or similar problem involving a ship, we may have to place a ship in an extended dry-dock period for repairs. this could result in material lost revenue and/or expenditures. the adverse impact of general economic and related factors, such as fluctuating or increasing levels of unemployment, underemployment and the volatility of fuel prices, declines in the securities and real estate markets and perceptions of these conditions can decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate in north america or globally, such as the volatility of fuel prices, higher interest rates, stock and real estate market declines and/or volatility, more restrictive credit markets, higher unemployment or underemployment rates, higher taxes and changes in governmental policies could reduce the level of discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our guests. consequently, this may negatively affect demand for cruise vacations in these countries, which are a discretionary purchase. decreases in demand for cruise vacations could result in price discounting, which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. in addition, these conditions could also impact our suppliers, which could result in disruptions in our suppliers&rsquo; services and financial losses for us. epidemics and viral outbreaks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. public perception about the safety of travel and adverse publicity related to passenger or crew illness, such as incidents of viral illnesses, stomach flu or other contagious diseases, may impact demand for cruises and result in cruise cancellations and employee absenteeism. if any wide-ranging health scare should occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. our expansion into and investments in new markets may not be successful. we believe there remains significant opportunity to expand our passenger sourcing into major markets, such as europe and australia, as well as into emerging markets in the asia pacific region and to expand our itineraries in new markets, such as cuba, and we are in the process of such expansion efforts. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment and attention from management. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment spent to expand our business into these markets and may forgo opportunities in more lucrative markets, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and risks. we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including political risks, risks of increases in duties and taxes, risks relating to anti-bribery laws, as well as risks that laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies may change. additional risks include imposition of trade barriers, withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and changes in and application of foreign taxation structures, including value added taxes. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. operating internationally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we have implemented safeguards and policies to prevent violations of various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and policies and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct prohibited by our policies, but for which we nevertheless may be held responsible. if our employees or agents violate our policies, if we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions or if we fail to implement or maintain other adequate safeguards, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions or severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties. we have operations in and source passengers from the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. on june 23, 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union. the proposed withdrawal resulted in increased volatility in the global financial markets and caused severe fluctuations in global currency exchange rates. the proposed withdrawal could potentially adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union. further, uncertainty around these issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom and the other economies in which we operate making it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks could impair our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the integrity and reliability of our information technology systems and other networks are crucial to our business operations. disruptions to these networks could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results and negatively affect our reputation and customer demand. in addition, certain networks are dependent on third-party technologies, systems and service providers for which there is no certainty of uninterrupted availability. among other things, actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events, information systems failures, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other cyber-attacks may cause disruptions to our information technology, telecommunications and other networks. while we have and continue to invest in business continuity, disaster recovery, data restoration plans and data and information technology security, we cannot completely insulate ourselves from disruptions that could result in adverse effects on our operations and financial results. we carry limited business interruption insurance for certain shoreside operations, subject to limitations, exclusions and deductibles. we have also made significant investments in our information technology systems to optimize booking procedures, enhance the marketing power of our websites and control costs. any unauthorized use of our information systems to gain access to sensitive information, corrupt data or create general disturbances in our operations systems could impair our ability to conduct business and damage our reputation. if our security systems were breached, we could be exposed to cyber-related risks and malware, and credit card and other sensitive data could be at risk. for example, in the processing of our guest transactions and as part of our ordinary business operations, we and certain of our third-party service providers collect, process, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information, including email addresses and home addresses and financial data such as credit card information. the security of the systems and network where we and our service providers store this data is a critical element of our business, and these systems and our network may be vulnerable to computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. we cannot assure you that the precautions we have taken to avoid an unauthorized incursion of our information systems are either adequate or implemented properly to prevent a data breach and its adverse financial and reputational consequences to our business. in addition, we may not be in a position to promptly address attacks or unauthorized access or to implement adequate preventative measures if we are unable to immediately detect such attacks. we are also subject to laws relating to privacy of personal data, including european union data privacy regulations. the compromise of our information systems resulting in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to the personally identifiable information of our guests, prospective guests or employees could result in governmental investigation, civil liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, any or all of which could disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our business. additionally, any material failure by us or our service providers to maintain compliance with the payment card industry security requirements or to rectify a data security issue may result in fines and restrictions on our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment. 22 table of contents in the event of a data security breach of our systems and/or third-party systems or a denial of service attack, we may incur costs associated with the following: response, notification, forensics, regulatory investigations, public relations, consultants, credit identity monitoring, credit freezes, fraud alert, credit identity restoration, credit card cancellation, credit card reissuance or replacement, data restoration, regulatory fines and penalties, vendor fines and penalties, legal fees, damages and settlements. in addition, data security breaches or denial of service attacks may cause business interruption, information technology disruption, disruptions as a result of regulatory investigation, digital asset loss related to corrupted or destroyed data, damage to our reputation, damages to intangible property and other intangible damages, such as loss of consumer confidence, all of which could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results. changes in fuel prices and/or other cruise operating costs would impact the cost of our cruise ship operations and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increased costs related to fuel prices. fuel expense is a significant cost for our company. future increases in the cost of fuel globally or regulatory requirements which require us to use more expensive types of fuel would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. in addition, we could experience increases in other cruise operating costs due to market forces and economic or political instability beyond our control. despite any fuel hedges we are currently a party to, or may enter into in the future, increases in fuel prices or other cruise operating costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to recover these increased costs through price increases charged to our guests. our hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to market conditions, including choice of hedging instruments, breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. to the extent that we use hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, such hedge contracts may limit our ability to benefit fully from lower fuel costs in the future. there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will be cost-effective, will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in our financial condition could negatively affect our ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results. we earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase and own assets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the u.s. dollar; most significantly a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, particularly british pound, canadian dollar, euro and australian dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against our other major currencies may adversely affect our u.s. dollar financial results and will reduce the u.s. dollar amount received upon conversion of these currencies into u.s. dollars. we have historically and may in the future enter into ship construction contracts denominated in euros or other foreign currencies. while we have entered into foreign currency derivatives to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with such contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portions of the ship construction contracts that have not been hedged. additionally, if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. overcapacity in key markets or globally could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to expand our fleet through our newbuild program and may add up to nine additional ships to our fleet through 2027. our competitors have also announced similar expansions to their fleets. these increases in capacity in the cruise industry globally and potential overcapacity in certain key markets may cause us to lower pricing, which would reduce profitability and adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, older ships in our fleet may not be as competitive as new ships enter the market and we may not be able to sell such older ships at optimal prices. unavailability of ports of call may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe that attractive port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports, including the specific port facility at which our guests will embark and disembark, is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security, safety and environmental concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, typhoons and earthquakes, financial limitations on port development, political instability, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and fees, local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists and sanctions programs implemented by the office of foreign assets control of the united states treasury department or other regulatory bodies. any limitations on the availability of ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 table of contents our indebtedness, and the agreements governing our indebtedness, may limit our flexibility in operating our business. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may contain, covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to, among other things: &middot; incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preference shares; &middot; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our share capital or make other restricted payments, including the ability of nclh&rsquo;s subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay dividends or make distributions to nclh; &middot; repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; &middot; make certain investments or acquisitions; &middot; transfer, sell or create liens on certain assets; &middot; consolidate or merge with, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets to, other companies; &middot; enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; &middot; pledge the capital stock of any guarantors of our indebtedness; and &middot; designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. in addition, a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness, which may limit our available funds for other business functions and strategic opportunities and may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, the economy and the industry in which we operate. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, including refinancing our indebtedness, which may not be successful. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our existing debt agreements. if any of the holders of our indebtedness accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. under our existing debt agreements, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. a failure to comply with the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements could result in an event of default under such agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the event of any default under our existing debt agreements, the holders of our indebtedness thereunder: &middot; will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us, if applicable; &middot; could elect to declare all indebtedness outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, if applicable; and/or &middot; could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay such indebtedness. such actions by the holders of our indebtedness could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of our secured indebtedness could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. if the indebtedness under our existing debt agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. the impact of volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees. 24 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will be able to borrow additional money on terms as favorable as our current debt, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. economic downturns, including failures of financial institutions and any related liquidity crisis, can disrupt the capital and credit markets. such disruptions could cause counterparties under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees to be unable to perform their obligations or to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include failures of financial institutions to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements and to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts and other agreements. also, we may be limited in obtaining funds to pay amounts due to our counterparties under our derivative contracts and to pay amounts that may become due under other agreements. if we were to elect to replace any counterparty for their failure to perform their obligations under such instruments, we would likely incur significant costs to replace the counterparty. any failure to replace any counterparties under these circumstances may result in additional costs to us or an ineffective instrument. our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or the loss of key personnel may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success is dependent upon our personnel and our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees in order to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. we need to hire and train a considerable number of qualified crew members to staff the ships that will be joining our fleet in the coming years. this may require significant efforts on the part of our management team, and our inability to hire a sufficient number of qualified crew members would adversely affect our business. our executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. delays in our shipbuilding program and ship repairs, maintenance and refurbishments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the new construction, refurbishment, repair and maintenance of our ships are complex processes and involve risks similar to those encountered in other large and sophisticated equipment construction, refurbishment and repair projects. our ships are subject to the risk of mechanical failure or accident, which we have occasionally experienced and have had to repair. if there is a mechanical failure or accident in the future, we may be unable to procure spare parts when needed or make repairs without incurring material expense or suspension of service, especially if a problem affects certain specialized maritime equipment, such as the radar, a pod propulsion unit, the electrical/power management system, the steering gear or the gyro system. in addition, availability, work stoppages, insolvency or financial problems in the shipyards&rsquo; construction, refurbishment or repair of our ships, or other &ldquo;force majeure&rdquo; events that are beyond our control and the control of shipyards or subcontractors, could also delay or prevent the newbuild delivery, refurbishment and repair and maintenance of our ships. any termination or breach of contract following such an event may result in, among other things, the forfeiture of prior deposits or payments made by us, potential claims and impairment of losses. a significant delay in the delivery of a new ship, or a significant performance deficiency or mechanical failure of a new ship could also have an adverse effect on our business. the consolidation of the control of certain european cruise shipyards could result in higher prices for the construction of new ships and refurbishments and could limit the availability of qualified shipyards to construct new ships. also, the lack of qualified shipyard repair facilities could result in the inability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. these potential events and the associated losses, to the extent that they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services, and we are exposed to risks facing such providers. in certain circumstances, we may not be able to replace such third parties or we may be forced to replace them at an increased cost to us. we rely on external third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services that are vital to our business. if these service providers suffer financial hardship or are otherwise unable to continue providing such services, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to replace such service providers in a timely manner, which may cause an interruption in our operations. to the extent that we are able to replace such service providers, we may be forced to pay an increased cost for equivalent services. both the interruption of operations and the replacement of the third-party service providers at an increased cost could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on scheduled commercial airline services for passenger and crew connections. increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services could undermine our customer base or disrupt our operations. a number of our passengers and crew depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to ports of embarkation for our cruises. increases in the price of airfare due to increases in fuel prices, fuel surcharges, changes in commercial airline services as a result of strikes, weather or other events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings could 25 table of contents adversely affect our ability to deliver guests and crew to or from our ships and thereby increase our cruise operating expenses which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. amendments to the collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may materially adversely affect our financial results. currently, we are a party to eight collective bargaining agreements. four of these agreements are in effect through 2018 and four through 2020. any future amendments to such collective bargaining agreements or inability to satisfactorily renegotiate such agreements may increase our labor costs and have a negative impact on our financial condition. in addition, although our collective bargaining agreements have a no-strike provision, they may not prevent a disruption in work on our ships in the future. any such disruptions in work could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that all of our risks are fully insured against or that any particular claim will be fully paid by our insurance. such losses, to the extent they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could affect our financial results. in addition, we have been and continue to be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity coverage for tort liability. our payment of these calls and increased premiums could result in significant expenses to us. if we were to sustain significant losses in the future, our ability to obtain insurance coverage at all or at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely affected. moreover, irrespective of the occurrence of such events, there can still be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all. we rely on external distribution channels for passenger bookings, and major changes in the availability of external distribution channels could undermine our customer base. the majority of our guests book their cruises through independent travel agents, wholesalers and tour operators. in the event that these distribution channels are adversely impacted by an economic downturn, or by other factors, this could reduce the distribution channels available for us to market and sell our cruises and we could be forced to increase the use of alternative distribution channels we are not accustomed to. if this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, independent travel agents, wholesalers and tour operators generally sell and market our cruises on a non-exclusive basis. although we offer commissions and other incentives to them for booking our cruises, there can be no guarantee that our competitors will not offer higher commissions and incentives in the future. travel agents may face increasing pressure from our competitors, particularly in the north american market, to sell and market our competitors&rsquo; cruises exclusively. if such exclusive arrangements were introduced, there can be no assurances that we will be able to find alternative distribution channels to ensure that our customer base would not be affected. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and damage our reputation. our business is subject to various u.s. and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances, it may not be economical to defend against such matters, and a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. as a result of any ship-related or other incidents, litigation claims, enforcement actions and regulatory actions and investigations, including, but not limited to, those arising from personal injury, loss of life, loss of or damage to personal property, business interruption losses or environmental damage to any affected coastal waters and the surrounding area, may be asserted or brought against various parties, including us and/or our cruise brands. the time and attention of our management may also be diverted in defending such claims, actions and investigations. subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may also incur costs both in defending against any claims, actions and investigations and for any judgments, fines, civil or criminal penalties if such claims, actions or investigations are adversely determined. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated systems and technology. these systems and technologies must be refined, updated and replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis in order for us to meet our customers&rsquo; demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so on a timely basis or within reasonable cost parameters, or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train 26 table of contents our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new system or technology, such as fuel abatement technologies, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. our revenue is seasonal, owing to variations in passenger fare rates and occupancy levels at different times of the year. we may not be able to generate revenue that is sufficient to cover our expenses during certain periods of the year. the demand for our cruises is seasonal, with the greatest demand for cruises generally occurring during the northern hemisphere&rsquo;s summer months. this seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. the seasonality of our results is increased due to ships being taken out of service for dry-docks, which we typically schedule during off-peak demand periods for such ships. accordingly, seasonality in demand and dry-dock periods could adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to cover the expenses we incur during certain periods of the year. risks related to the regulatory environment in which we operate future changes in applicable tax laws, or our inability to take advantage of favorable tax regimes, could increase the amount of taxes we must pay. we believe and have taken the position that our income that is considered to be derived from the international operation of ships as well as certain income that is considered to be incidental to such income (&ldquo;shipping income&rdquo;), is exempt from u.s. federal income taxes under section 883, based upon certain assumptions as to shareholdings and other information as more fully described in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation.&rdquo; the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. we believe and have taken the position that substantially all of our income derived from the international operation of ships is properly categorized as shipping income and that we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. it is possible, however, that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which nclh will satisfy complex stock ownership tests or the publicly traded test under section 883 as described in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash; taxation&mdash;exemption of international shipping income under section 883 of the code.&rdquo; there are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares, which could cause us or our subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. finally, any changes in our operations could significantly increase our exposure to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation&rdquo;), and we can give no assurances on this matter. if we or any of our subsidiaries were not to qualify for the exemption under section 883, our or such subsidiary&rsquo;s u.s.-source income would be subject to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in &ldquo;item 1&mdash; business&mdash; taxation). as of the date of this filing, we believe that nclh and its subsidiaries will satisfy the publicly traded test imposed under section 883 and therefore believe that nclh will qualify for the exemption under section 883. however, as discussed above, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause nclh to not meet the stock ownership or publicly traded tests. therefore, we can give no assurances on this matter. we refer you to &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation.&rdquo; we may be subject to state, local and non-u.s. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. we may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. our state, local or non-u.s. tax treatment may not conform to the u.s. federal income tax treatment discussed above. we may be required to pay non-u.s. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property that may give rise to non-u.s. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial. the various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. these tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. for example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from u.s. federal income tax under section 883 and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the u.s. moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the u.s. &ndash; u.k. income tax treaty on income derived in respect of our u.s.&ndash;flagged operation. we are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations on environmental protection and health and safety of workers could affect our operations. the u.s. environmental protection agency, the imo (a united nations agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution by ships), the council of the european union and individual countries and u.s. states are considering, as well as implementing, new laws and rules to manage cruise ship operations. in addition, many aspects of the cruise industry are subject to governmental regulation by the u.s. coast guard as well as international treaties such as solas, an international safety regulation, marpol, an international environmental regulation, and 27 table of contents stcw and its requirements for ship manning. in addition, some environmental groups have lobbied for more extensive oversight of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise industry and its environmental impact. the u.s. and various state and foreign government and regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations and policies aimed at reducing the threat of invasive species in ballast water, requiring the use of low-sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements and further restricting emissions, including those of green-house gases, and improving sewage and greywater-handling capabilities. compliance with such laws and regulations may entail significant expenses for ship modification and changes in operating procedures which could adversely impact our operations as well as our competitors&rsquo; operations. among the laws impacting cruise ship operations are a 2006 ballot measure approved by alaskan voters requiring that cruise ships meet alaska water quality standards (&ldquo;wqs&rdquo;). the law was relaxed somewhat in 2013, allowing ship operators to apply for mixing zones in discharge permits, an option that may ease compliance with certain wqs. the international labor organization&rsquo;s maritime labor convention, 2006 went into force on august 20, 2013. the convention regulates many aspects of maritime crew labor and impacts the worldwide sourcing of new crew members. marpol regulations have established special ecas with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions from fuel burning aboard ships. ships operating in designated ecas (which include the baltic sea, the north sea/english channel, and many of the waters within 200 nautical miles of the u.s. and canadian coasts including the hawaiian islands and waters surrounding puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands) are generally expected to meet the new sulfur oxide emissions limits through the use of low-sulfur fuels or installation of sulfur scrubbing technologies. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, areas of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. by virtue of our operations in the u.s., the fmc requires us to maintain a third-party performance guarantee on our behalf in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to guests. the fmc has proposed rules that would significantly increase the amount of our required guarantees and accordingly our cost of compliance. there can be no assurance that such an increase in the amount of our guarantees, if required, would be available to us. for additional discussion of the fmc&rsquo;s proposed requirements, we refer you to &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;regulatory issues.&rdquo; in 2007, the state of alaska implemented taxes, some of which were rolled back in 2010, which have impacted the cruise industry operating in alaska. it is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that our ships regularly visit may also decide to assess new taxes or fees or change existing taxes or fees specifically applicable to the cruise industry and its employees and/or guests, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises. risks related to nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares shareholders of nclh may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than shareholders of a u.s. corporation. we are a bermuda exempted company. the companies act 1981 of bermuda (the &ldquo;companies act&rdquo;), which applies to nclh, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. taken together with the provisions of nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws, some of these differences may result in you having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of nclh than you would have as a shareholder of a u.s. corporation. this affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the companies act or nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. nclh does not currently pay dividends on its ordinary shares. nclh does not currently pay dividends to its shareholders and nclh&rsquo;s board of directors may never declare a dividend. our existing debt agreements restrict, and any of our future debt arrangements may restrict, among other things, the ability of nclh&rsquo;s subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay distributions to nclh and nclh&rsquo;s ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders. in addition, any determination to pay dividends in the future will be entirely at the discretion of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, business opportunities, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that nclh&rsquo;s board of directors deems relevant. we are not legally or contractually required to pay dividends. in addition, nclh is a holding company and would depend upon its subsidiaries for their ability to pay distributions to nclh to finance any dividend or pay any other obligations of nclh. investors seeking dividends should not purchase nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares. provisions in nclh&rsquo;s constitutional documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that nclh&rsquo;s shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws contain provisions that may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that its shareholders consider to be in their best interests. as a result, these provisions may prevent nclh&rsquo;s shareholders from receiving a premium to the 28 table of contents market price of nclh&rsquo;s shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of nclh&rsquo;s shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. these provisions include (subject to the shareholders&rsquo; agreement): &middot; the ability of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to designate one or more series of preference shares and issue preference shares without shareholder approval; &middot; a classified board of directors; &middot; the sole power of a majority of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to fix the number of directors; &middot; the power of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to fill any vacancy on nclh&rsquo;s board of directors in most circumstances, including when such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; and &middot; advance notice requirements for nominating directors or introducing other business to be conducted at shareholder meetings. additionally, nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws contain provisions that prevent third parties, other than the apollo holders, the tpg viking funds and genting hk, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its outstanding shares without the consent of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors and provide for the lapse of rights, and sale, of any shares acquired in excess of that limit. the effect of these provisions may preclude third parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in nclh in transactions that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 43 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we attempt to minimize these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivatives. the financial impacts of these derivative instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the notional, term and conditions of the derivatives with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes. derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2017, we had interest rate swap agreements to hedge our exposure to interest rate movements and to manage our interest expense. as of december 31, 2017, 54% of our debt was fixed and 46% was variable, which includes the effects of the interest rate swaps. the notional amount of outstanding debt associated with the interest rate swap agreements as of december 31, 2017 was $218.6 million. based on our december 31, 2017 outstanding variable rate debt balance, a one percentage point increase in annual libor interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $29.4 million excluding the effects of capitalization of interest. foreign currency exchange rate risk as of december 31, 2017, we had foreign currency derivatives to hedge the exposure to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates related to our ship construction contracts denominated in euros. these derivatives hedge the foreign currency exchange rate risk on a portion of the payments on our ship construction contracts. the payments not hedged aggregate &euro;3.3 billion, or $4.0 billion based on the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate as of december 31, 2017. we estimate that a 10% change in the euro as of december 31, 2017 would result in a $0.4 billion change in the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated remaining payments. fuel price risk our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices relates to the forecasted purchases of fuel on our ships. fuel expense, as a percentage of our total cruise operating expense, was 11.8% for each of the twelve months ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 and 13.5% for the twelve months ended december 31, 2015. we use fuel derivative agreements to mitigate the financial impact of fluctuations in fuel prices and as of december 31, 2017, we had hedged approximately 65%, 48% and 26% of our 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively, projected metric tons of fuel purchases. we estimate that a 10% increase in our weighted-average fuel price would increase our anticipated 2018 fuel expense by $38.0 million. this increase would be partially offset by an increase in the fair value of our fuel swap agreements of $20.6 million. fair value of our derivative contracts is derived using valuation models that utilize the income valuation approach. these valuation models take into account the contract terms such as maturity, as well as other inputs such as fuel types, fuel curves, creditworthiness of the counterparty and the company, as well as other data points.risk factors 24 risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. if any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the ordering of the risk factors set forth below is not intended to reflect an indication of priority or likelihood. in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under &ldquo;cautionary statement concerning forward&ndash;looking statements.&rdquo; risks related to the company terrorist acts, armed conflict and threats thereof, acts of piracy, and other international events impacting the security of travel could adversely affect the demand for cruises. the threat or possibility of future terrorist acts, an outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict abroad or the possibility or fear of such events, political unrest and instability, the issuance of travel advisories or elevated national threat warnings by national governments, an increase in the activity of pirates, and other geo-political uncertainties have had in the past and may again in the future have an adverse impact on the demand for cruises, and consequently, the pricing for cruises. decreases in demand and reduced pricing in response to such decreased demand would adversely affect our business by reducing our profitability. adverse incidents involving cruise ships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships carries an inherent risk of loss caused by adverse weather conditions and maritime disasters, including, but not limited to, oil spills and other environmental mishaps, extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods and typhoons, fire, mechanical failure, collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action, civil unrest and insurrection in various countries and other circumstances or events. any such event may result in loss of life or property, loss of revenue or increased costs. the operation of cruise ships also involves the risk of other incidents at sea or while in port, including missing guests, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior and onboard crimes, which may bring into question passenger safety, may adversely affect future industry performance and may lead to litigation against us. although we place passenger safety as the highest priority in the design and operation of our fleet, we have experienced accidents and other incidents involving our cruise ships and there can be no assurance that similar events will not occur in the future. it is possible that we could be forced to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these factors or incur increased port-related and other costs resulting from such adverse events. any such event involving our cruise ships or other passenger cruise ships may adversely affect guests&rsquo; perceptions of safety or result in increased governmental or other regulatory oversight. an adverse judgment or settlement in respect of any of the ongoing claims against us may also lead to negative publicity about us. the expanded use of social media has increased the speed that negative publicity spreads and makes it more difficult to mitigate reputational damage. anything that damages our reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about passenger safety, could have an adverse impact on demand, which could lead to price discounting and a reduction in our sales and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if there is a significant accident, mechanical failure or similar problem involving a ship, we may have to place a ship in an extended dry-dock period for repairs. this could result in material lost revenue and/or expenditures. the adverse impact of general economic and related factors, such as fluctuating or increasing levels of unemployment, underemployment and the volatility of fuel prices, declines in the securities and real estate markets and perceptions of these conditions can decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate in north america or globally, such as the volatility of fuel prices, higher interest rates, stock and real estate market declines and/or volatility, more restrictive credit markets, higher unemployment or underemployment rates, higher taxes, changes in governmental policies and political developments impacting international trade including continued uncertainty surrounding the united kingdom&rsquo;s withdrawal from the european union, trade disputes and increased tariffs, could reduce the level of discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our guests. consequently, this may negatively affect demand for cruise vacations in these countries, which are a discretionary purchase. decreases in demand for cruise vacations could result in price discounting, which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. in addition, these conditions could also impact our suppliers, which could result in disruptions in our suppliers&rsquo; services and financial losses for us. 24 table of contents epidemics and viral outbreaks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. public perception about the safety of travel and adverse publicity related to passenger or crew illness, such as incidents of viral illnesses, stomach flu or other contagious diseases, may impact demand for cruises and result in cruise cancellations and employee absenteeism. if any wide-ranging health scare should occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks could impair our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have made significant investments in our information technology systems to optimize booking procedures, enhance the marketing power of our websites and control costs. the integrity and reliability of these systems and networks are crucial to our business operations and disruptions to these systems or networks could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results and negatively affect our reputation and customer demand. in addition, certain networks are dependent on third-party technologies, systems and service providers for which there is no certainty of uninterrupted availability. among other things, actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods or similar events), information systems failures, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other cyber-attacks may cause disruptions to our information technology, telecommunications and other networks. while we have and continue to invest in business continuity, disaster recovery, data restoration plans and data and information technology security, we cannot completely insulate ourselves from disruptions that could result in adverse effects on our operations and financial results. we carry limited business interruption insurance for certain shoreside operations, subject to limitations, exclusions and deductibles. as part of our ordinary business operations, we and certain of our third-party service providers collect, process, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information, including email addresses, home addresses and financial data such as credit card information. the security of the systems and networks where we and our service providers store this data is a critical element of our business. despite our implementation of security measures to protect against security breaches, unauthorized access to our data and other cyber-attacks or incidents, our systems and networks are vulnerable to computer viruses, malware, worms, hackers and other security issues, including physical and electronic break-ins, router disruption, sabotage or espionage, disruptions from unauthorized access and tampering (including through social engineering such as phishing attacks), impersonation of authorized users and coordinated denial-of-service attacks. for example, in october 2018, we discovered limited instances of unauthorized access to certain employee e-mail communications, some of which contained proprietary business and personally identifiable information. we have implemented additional safeguards, and we do not believe that we experienced any material losses related to this incident; however, there can be no assurance that this or any other breach or incident will not have a material impact on our operations and financial results in the future. in addition, we may not be in a position to promptly address security breaches, unauthorized access or other cyber-attacks or incidents or to implement adequate preventative measures if we are unable to immediately detect such incidents. our failure to successfully prevent, mitigate or timely respond to any breach, attack or unauthorized use of our information systems to gain access to sensitive information, corrupt data or create general disturbances in our operations systems could impair our ability to conduct business and damage our reputation. we are also subject to laws relating to privacy of personal data, including european union data privacy regulations. the compromise of our information systems resulting in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to the personally identifiable information of our guests, prospective guests or employees could result in governmental investigation, civil liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, any or all of which could disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our business. additionally, any material failure by us or our service providers to maintain compliance with the payment card industry security requirements or to rectify a data security issue may result in fines and restrictions on our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment. in the event of a data security breach of our systems and/or third-party systems or a cyber-attack or other cyber incident, we may incur costs associated with the following: response, notification, forensics, regulatory investigations, public relations, consultants, credit identity monitoring, credit freezes, fraud alert, credit identity restoration, credit card cancellation, credit card reissuance or replacement, data restoration, regulatory fines and penalties, vendor fines and penalties, legal fees, damages and settlements. in addition, data security breaches, a cyber-attack or other cyber incident may cause business interruption, information technology disruption, disruptions as a result of regulatory investigation or litigation, digital asset loss related to corrupted or destroyed data, loss of company assets, damage to our reputation, damages to intangible property and other intangible damages, such as loss of consumer confidence, all of which could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results. 25 table of contents conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and risks. we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including political risks, risks of increases in duties and taxes, risks relating to anti-bribery laws, as well as risks that laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies may change. additional risks include imposition of trade barriers, withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and changes in and application of foreign taxation structures, including value added taxes. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. operating internationally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we have implemented safeguards and policies to prevent violations of various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and policies and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct prohibited by our policies, but for which we nevertheless may be held responsible. if our employees or agents violate our policies, if we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions or if we fail to implement or maintain other adequate safeguards, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions or severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties. we have operations in and source passengers from the u.k. and other member countries of the european union. on june 23, 2016, voters in the u.k. approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union. negotiations on the terms of the u.k.&rsquo;s future relationship with the european union are ongoing, with the u.k. due to exit the european union on march 29, 2019. while negotiations are continuing, there remains considerable uncertainty around the withdrawal. current discussions between the u.k. and the european union may result in any number of outcomes including an extension or delay of the u.k.&rsquo;s withdrawal from the european union. the consequences for the economies of the u.k. and other european union member states as a result of the u.k.&rsquo;s withdrawal from the european union are unknown and unpredictable, which could make it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. the proposed withdrawal could also potentially adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject and disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the u.k. and the european union. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in fuel prices and/or other cruise operating costs would impact the cost of our cruise ship operations and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increased costs related to fuel prices. fuel expense is a significant cost for our company. future increases in the cost of fuel globally or regulatory requirements which require us to use more expensive types of fuel would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. for example, the imo&rsquo;s convention entitled prevention of pollution from ships (marpol) has set a global limit on fuel sulfur content of 0.5% (reduced from the current 3.5% global limit) beginning january 2020. various compliance methods, such as the use of low-sulfur fuels or exhaust gas cleaning systems that reduce an equivalent amount of sulfur emissions, may be utilized. we have elected to install exhaust gas cleaning systems on some ships in our fleet, which will allow us to continue to use high-sulfur fuel on those ships. however, if exhaust gas cleaning systems are not widely used in the industry, low demand for high-sulfur fuel may increase the price for such fuel. other ships in our fleet that do not have exhaust gas cleaning systems will be required to use low-sulfur fuels. low-sulfur fuels may be costly due to increased demand and scarcity if suppliers are not able to produce sufficient quantities. in addition, we could experience increases in other cruise operating costs due to market forces and economic or political instability resulting from increases or volatility in fuel expense. despite any fuel hedges we are currently a party to, or may enter into in the future, increases in fuel prices or other cruise operating costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to recover these increased costs through price increases charged to our guests. our hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to market conditions, including choice of hedging instruments, breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. to the extent that we use hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, such hedge contracts may limit our ability to benefit fully from lower fuel costs in the future. there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will be cost-effective, will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in our financial condition could negatively affect our ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future. 26 table of contents fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results. we earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase and own assets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the u.s. dollar; most significantly a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, particularly british pound, canadian dollar, euro and australian dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against our other major currencies may adversely affect our u.s. dollar financial results and will reduce the u.s. dollar amount received upon conversion of these currencies into u.s. dollars. we have historically and may in the future enter into ship construction contracts denominated in euros or other foreign currencies. while we have entered into foreign currency derivatives to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with such contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portions of the ship construction contracts that have not been hedged. additionally, if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. our expansion into and investments in new markets may not be successful. we believe there remains significant opportunity to expand our passenger sourcing into major markets, such as europe and australia, as well as into emerging markets and to expand our itineraries in new markets, as we did with cuba, and we are in the process of such expansion efforts. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment and attention from management. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment spent to expand our business into these markets and may forgo opportunities in more lucrative markets, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. overcapacity in key markets or globally could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to expand our fleet through our newbuild program and expect to add 11 additional ships to our fleet through 2027. our competitors have also announced similar expansions to their fleets. these increases in capacity in the cruise industry globally and potential overcapacity in certain key markets may cause us to lower pricing, which would reduce profitability and adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, older ships in our fleet may not be as competitive as new ships enter the market and we may not be able to sell such older ships at optimal prices. unavailability of ports of call may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe that attractive port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports, including the specific port facility at which our guests will embark and disembark, is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security, safety and environmental concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, typhoons and earthquakes, financial limitations on port development, political instability, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and fees, local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists and sanctions programs implemented by the office of foreign assets control of the united states treasury department or other regulatory bodies. for example, we had to temporarily change certain itineraries in the caribbean due to damage some ports sustained during an active hurricane season in 2017. there can be no assurance that our ports of call will not be similarly affected in the future. we garner a pricing premium from our itineraries to cuba as opposed to other caribbean itineraries. if there is a change in the diplomatic relationship between the u.s. and cuba, or either government issued sanctions or regulations that affect travel to cuba, it is possible that we will no longer include cuba in our itineraries. any limitations on the availability of ports of call, including cuba, or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that our risks are fully insured against or that any particular claim will be fully paid by our insurance. such losses, to the extent they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could affect our financial results. in addition, we have been and continue to be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity coverage for tort liability. our payment of these calls and increased premiums could result in significant expenses to us. if we, or other members of our protection and indemnity associations, were to sustain significant losses in the future, our ability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all could be materially adversely affected. for example, in the past our protection and indemnity associations have increased certain deductibles and determined not to cover certain categories of claims. moreover, irrespective of the occurrence of such events, there can still be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all. 27 table of contents evolving requirements and regulations regarding data privacy and protection and any actual or perceived compliance failures by us could increase our liability and costs and otherwise materially adversely affect our business operations. we process and store sensitive information relating to our guests, employees, business partners and others and we are subject to requirements and regulations regarding data privacy and protection in multiple jurisdictions. government regulators, privacy advocates and individuals are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, store, share and transmit personal data. new laws governing data privacy and protection, such as the european union&rsquo;s general data protection regulation (&ldquo;gdpr&rdquo;) have been enacted and more are being considered worldwide. the gdpr contains stringent data privacy and protection requirements and enables regulators to impose significant penalties for non-compliance. the regulatory framework for data privacy and protection is uncertain for the foreseeable future, and it is possible that legal and regulatory obligations may continue to increase and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent or possibly conflicting from one jurisdiction to another. any actual or perceived failure by us or our business partners to comply with posted privacy policies, federal, state or international data privacy and protection laws and regulations, or privacy commitments contained in our contracts could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others and significant fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and harm our reputation. additionally, if third parties we work with, such as vendors, violate applicable laws or regulations or our policies, such violations may also result in increased liability for us and have an adverse effect on our business. existing and future legal and regulatory restrictions on our ability to collect and use data could also negatively affect our ability to market our business, result in increased compliance costs, and otherwise affect our business processes, all of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. our indebtedness, and the agreements governing our indebtedness, may limit our flexibility in operating our business and a significant portion of our assets, including many of our ships, are collateral under our debt agreements. a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness, which may limit our available funds for other business functions and strategic opportunities and may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, the economy and the industry in which we operate. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, including refinancing our indebtedness, which may not be successful. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. in addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may contain, covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preference shares; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our share capital or make other restricted payments, including the ability of nclh&rsquo;s subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay dividends or make distributions to nclh; repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; make certain investments or acquisitions; transfer, sell or create liens on certain assets; and consolidate or merge with, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets to other companies. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. our existing debt agreements also require us, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may require us, to maintain minimum level of liquidity, as well as limit our net funded debt-to-capital ratio and maintain certain other financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. a failure to comply with the covenants contained in our debt agreements could result in an event of default under such agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the event of any default under our debt agreements, the holders of our indebtedness thereunder: &middot; could elect to declare all indebtedness outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, if applicable; and/or &middot; could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay such indebtedness. 28 table of contents such actions by the holders of our indebtedness could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness, and there is no assurance that we would have sufficient current assets to repay such indebtedness in full. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of our secured indebtedness could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which includes a significant portion of our assets including many of our ships. any such action would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the impact of volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to borrow additional money on terms as favorable as our current debt, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. economic downturns, including failures of financial institutions and any related liquidity crisis, can disrupt the capital and credit markets. such disruptions could cause counterparties under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees to be unable to perform their obligations or to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include failures of financial institutions to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements and to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts and other agreements. also, we may be limited in obtaining funds to pay amounts due to our counterparties under our derivative contracts and to pay amounts that may become due under other agreements. if we were to elect to replace any counterparty for their failure to perform their obligations under such instruments, we would likely incur significant costs to replace the counterparty. any failure to replace any counterparties under these circumstances may result in additional costs to us or an ineffective instrument. certain of our debt agreements use libor as a reference rate for interest rate calculations. in july 2017, the u.k.&rsquo;s financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. the u.s. federal reserve has begun publishing a secured overnight funding rate, which is intended to replace u.s. dollar libor. plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced. at this time, we cannot predict how markets will respond to these proposed alternative rates or the effect of any changes to libor or the discontinuation of libor. if libor is no longer available or if our lenders have increased costs due to changes in libor, we may experience potential increases in interest rates on our variable rate debt, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or the loss of key personnel may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success is dependent upon our personnel and our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees in order to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. we need to hire and train a considerable number of qualified crew members to staff the ships that will be joining our fleet in the coming years. this may require significant efforts on the part of our management team, and our inability to hire a sufficient number of qualified crew members would adversely affect our business. our executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. delays in our shipbuilding program and ship repairs, maintenance and refurbishments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the new construction, refurbishment, repair and maintenance of our ships are complex processes and involve risks similar to those encountered in other large and sophisticated equipment construction, refurbishment and repair projects. our ships are subject to the risk of mechanical failure or accident, which we have occasionally experienced and have had to repair. for example, in the past we have had to delay or cancel cruises due to mechanical issues on our ships. there can be no assurance that we will not experience similar events in the future. if there is a mechanical failure or accident in the future, we may be unable to procure spare parts when needed or make repairs without incurring material expense or suspension of service, especially if a problem affects certain specialized maritime equipment, such as the radar, a pod propulsion unit, the electrical/power management system, the steering gear or the gyro system. in addition, availability, work stoppages, insolvency or financial problems in the shipyards&rsquo; construction, refurbishment or repair of our ships, or other &ldquo;force majeure&rdquo; events that are beyond our control and the control of shipyards or subcontractors, could also delay or prevent the newbuild delivery, refurbishment and repair and maintenance of our ships. any termination or breach of contract following such an event may result in, among other things, the forfeiture of prior deposits or payments made by us, potential claims and impairment of losses. a significant delay in the delivery of a new ship, or a significant performance deficiency or mechanical failure of a new ship could also have an adverse effect on our business. the consolidation of the control of certain european cruise shipyards could result in higher prices for the construction of new ships and refurbishments and could limit the availability of qualified shipyards to construct new ships. also, the lack of qualified shipyard repair facilities could result in the inability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. these potential events and the associated losses, to the extent that they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 29 table of contents we rely on third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services, and we are exposed to risks facing such providers. in certain circumstances, we may not be able to replace such third parties or we may be forced to replace them at an increased cost to us. we rely on external third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services that are vital to our business. if these service providers suffer financial hardship or are otherwise unable to continue providing such services, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to replace such service providers in a timely manner, which may cause an interruption in our operations. to the extent that we are able to replace such service providers, we may be forced to pay an increased cost for equivalent services. both the interruption of operations and the replacement of the third-party service providers at an increased cost could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on scheduled commercial airline services for passenger and crew connections. increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services could undermine our customer base or disrupt our operations. a number of our passengers and crew depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to ports of embarkation for our cruises. increases in the price of airfare due to increases in fuel prices, fuel surcharges, changes in commercial airline services as a result of strikes, weather or other events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings could adversely affect our ability to deliver guests and crew to or from our ships and thereby increase our cruise operating expenses which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. amendments to the collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may materially adversely affect our financial results. currently, we are a party to eight collective bargaining agreements. four of these agreements are in effect through 2020, two through 2021 and two through 2027. any future amendments to such collective bargaining agreements or inability to satisfactorily renegotiate such agreements may increase our labor costs and have a negative impact on our financial condition. in addition, although our collective bargaining agreements have a no-strike provision, they may not prevent a disruption in work on our ships in the future. any such disruptions in work could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and damage our reputation. our business is subject to various u.s. and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances, it may not be economical to defend against such matters, and a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. as a result of any ship-related or other incidents, litigation claims, enforcement actions and regulatory actions and investigations, including, but not limited to, those arising from personal injury, loss of life, loss of or damage to personal property, business interruption losses or environmental damage to any affected coastal waters and the surrounding area, may be asserted or brought against various parties, including us and/or our cruise brands. the time and attention of our management may also be diverted in defending such claims, actions and investigations. subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may also incur costs both in defending against any claims, actions and investigations and for any judgments, fines, civil or criminal penalties if such claims, actions or investigations are adversely determined. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated systems and technology. these systems and technologies must be refined, updated and replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis in order for us to meet our customers&rsquo; demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so on a timely basis or within reasonable cost parameters, or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new system or technology, such as fuel abatement technologies, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. 30 table of contents our revenue is seasonal, owing to variations in passenger fare rates and occupancy levels at different times of the year. we may not be able to generate revenue that is sufficient to cover our expenses during certain periods of the year. the demand for our cruises is seasonal, with the greatest demand for cruises generally occurring during the northern hemisphere&rsquo;s summer months. this seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. the seasonality of our results is increased due to ships being taken out of service for dry-docks, which we typically schedule during off-peak demand periods for such ships. accordingly, seasonality in demand and dry-dock periods could adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to cover the expenses we incur during certain periods of the year. risks related to the regulatory environment in which we operate future changes in applicable tax laws, or our inability to take advantage of favorable tax regimes, could increase the amount of taxes we must pay. we believe and have taken the position that our income that is considered to be derived from the international operation of ships as well as certain income that is considered to be incidental to such income (&ldquo;shipping income&rdquo;), is exempt from u.s. federal income taxes under section 883, based upon certain assumptions as to shareholdings and other information as more fully described in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation.&rdquo; the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. we believe and have taken the position that substantially all of our income derived from the international operation of ships is properly categorized as shipping income and that we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. it is possible, however, that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which nclh will satisfy complex stock ownership tests or the publicly traded test under section 883 as described in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash; taxation&mdash;exemption of international shipping income under section 883 of the code.&rdquo; there are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares, which could cause us or our subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. finally, any changes in our operations could significantly increase our exposure to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation&rdquo;), and we can give no assurances on this matter. if we or any of our subsidiaries were not to qualify for the exemption under section 883, our or such subsidiary&rsquo;s u.s.-source income would be subject to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in &ldquo;item 1&mdash; business&mdash; taxation). as of the date of this filing, we believe that nclh and its subsidiaries will satisfy the publicly traded test imposed under section 883 and therefore believe that nclh will qualify for the exemption under section 883. however, as discussed above, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause nclh to not meet the stock ownership or publicly traded tests. therefore, we can give no assurances on this matter. we refer you to &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation.&rdquo; we may be subject to state, local and non-u.s. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. we may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. our state, local or non-u.s. tax treatment may not conform to the u.s. federal income tax treatment discussed above. we may be required to pay non-u.s. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property that may give rise to non-u.s. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial. the various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. these tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. for example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from u.s. federal income tax under section 883 and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the u.s. moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law, including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the u.s. &ndash; u.k. income tax treaty on income derived in respect of our u.s.&ndash;flagged operation. we are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue. increasingly stringent and complex international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations addressing environmental protection and health and safety of workers could affect our operations. the imo, a united nations agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution by ships, the council of the european union, individual countries, the united states, and individual states have implemented and are considering, new laws and rules to manage cruise ship operations. many aspects of the cruise industry are subject to international treaties such as solas, an international safety regulation, marpol, imo&rsquo;s requirements governing environmental protection, and stcw, an imo regulation governing ship manning. in the united states, the environmental protection agency and the u.s. coast guard both have regulations addressing cruise ship operations. 31 table of contents the u.s. and various state and foreign government and regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations and policies aimed at reducing the threat of invasive species in ballast water, requiring the use of low-sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements and further restricting emissions, including those of green-house gases, and improving sewage and greywater-handling capabilities. compliance with such laws and regulations may entail significant expenses for ship modification and changes in operating procedures which could adversely impact our operations as well as our competitors&rsquo; operations. among the laws impacting cruise ship operations are a 2006 ballot measure approved by alaskan voters requiring that cruise ships meet alaska water quality standards (&ldquo;wqs&rdquo;). the law was relaxed somewhat in 2013, allowing ship operators to apply for mixing zones in discharge permits, an option that has eased compliance with certain wqs. the international labor organization&rsquo;s maritime labor convention, 2006 went into force on august 20, 2013. this convention regulates many aspects of maritime crew labor and impacts the worldwide sourcing of new crew members. marpol regulations have established special emission control areas (&ldquo;ecas&rdquo;) with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions from fuel burning aboard ships. ships operating in designated ecas (which include the baltic sea, the north sea/english channel, and many of the waters within 200 nautical miles of the u.s. and canadian coasts including the hawaiian islands and waters surrounding puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands) are generally expected to meet the new sulfur oxide emissions limits through the use of low-sulfur fuels or installation of exhaust gas cleaning systems. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, areas of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. some environmental groups continue to lobby for more extensive oversight of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise industry and its environmental impact. by virtue of our operations in the u.s., the fmc requires us to maintain a third-party performance guarantee on our behalf in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to guests. the fmc has proposed rules that would significantly increase the amount of our required guarantees and accordingly our cost of compliance. there can be no assurance that such an increase in the amount of our guarantees, if required, would be available to us. for additional discussion of the fmc&rsquo;s proposed requirements, we refer you to &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;regulatory issues.&rdquo; in 2007, the state of alaska implemented taxes, some of which were rolled back in 2010, which have impacted the cruise industry operating in alaska. it is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that our ships regularly visit may also decide to assess new taxes or fees or change existing taxes or fees specifically applicable to the cruise industry and its employees and/or guests, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises. risks related to nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares shareholders of nclh may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than shareholders of a u.s. corporation. we are a bermuda exempted company. the companies act 1981 of bermuda (the &ldquo;companies act&rdquo;), which applies to nclh, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. taken together with the provisions of nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws, some of these differences may result in you having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of nclh than you would have as a shareholder of a u.s. corporation. this affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the companies act or nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. nclh does not currently pay dividends on its ordinary shares. nclh does not currently pay dividends to its shareholders and nclh&rsquo;s board of directors may never declare a dividend. our existing debt agreements restrict, and any of our future debt arrangements may restrict, among other things, the ability of nclh&rsquo;s subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay distributions to nclh and nclh&rsquo;s ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders. in addition, any determination to pay dividends in the future will be entirely at the discretion of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, business opportunities, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that nclh&rsquo;s board of directors deems relevant. we are not legally or contractually required to pay dividends. in addition, nclh is a holding company and would depend upon its subsidiaries for their ability to pay distributions to nclh to finance any dividend or pay any other obligations of nclh. investors seeking dividends should not purchase nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares. 32 table of contents provisions in nclh&rsquo;s constitutional documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that nclh&rsquo;s shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws contain provisions that may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that its shareholders consider to be in their best interests. as a result, these provisions may prevent nclh&rsquo;s shareholders from receiving a premium to the market price of nclh&rsquo;s shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of nclh&rsquo;s shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. these provisions include: &middot; the ability of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to designate one or more series of preference shares and issue preference shares without shareholder approval; &middot; a classified board of directors; &middot; the sole power of a majority of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to fix the number of directors; &middot; the power of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to fill any vacancy on nclh&rsquo;s board of directors in most circumstances, including when such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; and &middot; advance notice requirements for nominating directors or introducing other business to be conducted at shareholder meetings. additionally, nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws contain provisions that prevent third parties from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its outstanding shares without the consent of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors and provide for the lapse of rights, and sale, of any shares acquired in excess of that limit. the effect of these provisions may preclude third parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in nclh in transactions that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we attempt to minimize these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivatives. the financial impacts of these derivative instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the notional, term and conditions of the derivatives with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes. derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2018, we had interest rate swap agreements to manage our interest expense by hedging the interest rate risks associated with variable rates on our outstanding borrowings. as of december 31, 2018, 72% of our debt was fixed and 28% was variable, which includes the effects of the interest rate swaps. the notional amount of our outstanding debt associated with the interest rate swap agreements was $1.0 billion as of december 31, 2018. as of december 31, 2017, 54% of our debt was fixed and 46% was variable, which includes the effects of the interest rate swaps. the notional amount of outstanding debt associated with the interest rate swap agreements was $218.6 million as of december 31, 2017. the change from december 31, 2017 to december 31, 2018 was due to additional interest rate swaps executed and the repayment of variable rate debt. based on our december 31, 2018 outstanding variable rate debt balance, a one percentage point increase in annual libor interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $18.4 million excluding the effects of capitalization of interest. 48 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk as of december 31, 2018, we had foreign currency derivatives to hedge the exposure to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates related to our ship construction contracts denominated in euros. these derivatives hedge the foreign currency exchange rate risk on a portion of the payments on our ship construction contracts. the payments not hedged aggregate &euro;2.2 billion, or $2.5 billion based on the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate as of december 31, 2018. as of december 31, 2017, the payments not hedged aggregated &euro;3.3 billion, or $4.0 billion, based on the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate as of december 31, 2017. the change from december 31, 2017 to december 31, 2018 was due to the delivery of a ship in april 2018 and additional foreign exchange derivatives executed. we estimate that a 10% change in the euro as of december 31, 2018 would result in a $0.3 billion change in the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated remaining payments. fuel price risk our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices relates to the forecasted purchases of fuel on our ships. fuel expense, as a percentage of our total cruise operating expense, was 11.6% for the year ended december 31, 2018 and 11.8% for each of the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016. we use fuel derivative agreements to mitigate the financial impact of fluctuations in fuel prices and as of december 31, 2018, we had hedged approximately 57%, 53% and 33% of our 2019, 2020 and 2021 projected metric tons of fuel purchases, respectively. as of december 31, 2017, we had hedged approximately 65%, 48% and 26% of our 2018, 2019 and 2020 projected metric tons of fuel purchases, respectively. the change in fuel price risk from december 31, 2017 to december 31, 2018 was due to additional fuel hedges executed. we estimate that a 10% increase in our weighted-average fuel price would increase our anticipated 2019 fuel expense by $40.5 million. this increase would be partially offset by an increase in the fair value of our fuel swap agreements of $20.1 million. fair value of our derivative contracts is derived using valuation models that utilize the income valuation approach. these valuation models take into account the contract terms such as maturity, as well as other inputs such as fuel types, fuel curves, creditworthiness of the counterparty and the company, as well as other data points.risk factors 29 risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. if any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in connection with the forward-looking cautionary statements that appear in this annual report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements. risk factors related to our business the specific risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results and individually or any combination thereof could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. the adverse impact of the worldwide economic downturn and related factors such as high levels of unemployment and underemployment, fuel price increases, declines in the securities and real estate markets, and perceptions of these conditions that decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate, such as higher fuel prices, higher interest rates, stock and real estate market declines and/or volatility, more restrictive credit markets, higher taxes, and changes in governmental policies could reduce the level of discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our guests. for example, the worldwide economic downturn has had an adverse effect on consumer confidence and discretionary income resulting in decreased demand and price discounting. we cannot predict the duration or magnitude of this downturn or the timing or strength of economic recovery. if the downturn continues for an extended period of time or worsens, we could experience a prolonged period of decreased demand and price discounting. in addition, the economic downturn has and may continue to adversely impact our suppliers, which can result in disruptions in service and financial losses. an increase in cruise capacity. historically, cruise capacity has grown to meet the growth in demand. according to clia, cruise capacity, in terms of berths, has increased from 2000 through 2012 at a compound annual growth rate of 6.2%. clia estimates that between 2013 and 2016, the north america based clia member line fleet will increase by approximately 29 ships, representing a compound annual capacity growth of 3.4%. in order to profitably utilize this new capacity, the cruise industry will likely need to improve its percentage share of the u.s. population who has cruised at least once, which is approximately 24%, according to clia. if there is an industry-wide increase in capacity without a corresponding increase in public demand, we, as well as the entire cruise industry, could experience reduced occupancy rates and/or be forced to discount our prices. in addition, increased cruise capacity could impact our ability to retain and attract qualified shipboard employees, including officers, at competitive levels and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. 29 table of contents we face intense competition from other cruise companies as well as non-cruise vacation alternatives and we may not be able to compete effectively. we face intense competition from other cruise companies, primarily the other major north american cruise brands, which together comprise approximately 90% of the north american cruise market as measured by total berths. these brands include carnival cruise lines and royal caribbean international in the contemporary segment and holland america, princess cruises and celebrity cruises in the premium segment. as of december 31, 2012, norwegian cruise line accounted for approximately 11% of the major north american cruise brands capacity in terms of berths. we compete against all of these operators principally on the quality of our ships, our differentiated product offering, selection of our itineraries and value proposition of our cruises. we also face competition for many itineraries from other cruise operators as well as competition from non-cruise vacation alternatives. in the event we do not compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments. we are highly leveraged with a high level of variable rate debt, and our level of indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our financial condition, operations, prospects and flexibility. as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately $3.0 billion of total debt. our substantial indebtedness could: limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; make us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; restrict us from taking certain actions by means of restrictive covenants; make our credit card processors seek more restrictive terms in respect of our credit card arrangements; and expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at a variable rate of interest. based on our december 31, 2012 outstanding variable rate debt balance, a one percentage point increase in the libor interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $18.2 million, excluding the effects of capitalization of interest. in addition, future financings we may undertake may also provide for rates that fluctuate with prevailing interest rates. increases in fuel prices and/or other cruise operating costs. fuel expense accounted for 19.2% of our total cruise operating expense in 2012, 16.6% in 2011 and 15.4% in 2010. future increases in the cost of fuel globally would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. in addition, we could experience increases in other cruise operating costs, due to market forces and economic or political instability beyond our control. 30 table of contents conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and risks. we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including political risks, risks of increase in duties and taxes, risks relating to anti-bribery laws, as well as changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies. because some of our expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, we are exposed to exchange rate risks. additional risks include interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. we have implemented safeguards and policies to prevent violations of various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. if employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions, or severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt or issue certain preference shares; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our share capital or make other restricted payments, including the ability of nclc to make distributions or other restricted payments to nclh; make certain investments; sell certain assets; create liens on certain assets; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our existing debt agreements. if any of the holders of our indebtedness accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. under our existing debt agreements we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. a failure to comply with the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements could result in an event of default under the agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the event of any default under our existing debt agreements, the holders of our indebtedness thereunder: 31 table of contents will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us, if applicable; could elect to declare all indebtedness outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, if applicable; and/or could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay such indebtedness. such actions by the holders of our indebtedness could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of our indebtedness under our existing senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. if the indebtedness under our existing debt agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt. this could intensify the risks described above. we may be able to incur substantial indebtedness at any time in the future. although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things: our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and our future ability to borrow under certain of our existing senior secured credit facilities, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in such existing senior secured credit facilities. there can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to draw under certain of our existing senior secured credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. in addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. in the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. neither our sponsors nor any of their respective affiliates has any continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing. the impact of volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivative instruments, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to borrow additional money on terms as favorable as our current debt, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. as a result of the global credit crisis, certain financial institutions have filed for bankruptcy, have sold some or all of their assets, or may be looking to enter into merger or other transaction with another financial institution. consequently, some of the counterparties under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees may be unable to perform their obligations or may breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include 32 table of contents failures of financial institutions to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements and to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts and other agreements. also, we may be limited in obtaining funds to pay amounts due to our counterparties under our derivative contracts and to pay amounts that may become due under other agreements. if we were to elect to replace any counterparty for their failure to perform their obligations under such instruments, we would likely incur significant costs to replace the counterparty. any failure to replace any counterparties under these circumstances may result in additional costs to us or an ineffective instrument. terrorist acts, acts of piracy, armed conflict and threats thereof, and other international events impacting the security of travel could adversely affect the demand for cruises. past acts of terrorism have had an adverse effect on tourism, travel and the availability of air service and other forms of transportation. the threat or possibility of future terrorist acts, an outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict abroad or the possibility thereof, the issuance of travel advisories by national governments, and other geo-political uncertainties have had in the past and may again in the future have an adverse impact on the demand for cruises and consequently the pricing for cruises. decreases in demand and reduced pricing in response to such decreased demand would adversely affect our business by reducing our profitability. we rely on external distribution channels for passenger bookings, and major changes in the availability of external distribution channels could undermine our customer base. in 2012, the majority of our guests booked their cruises through independent travel agents. in the event that the travel agent distribution channel is adversely impacted by the worldwide economic downturn, or other reason, this could reduce the distribution channels available for us to market and sell our cruises and we could be forced to increase the use of alternative distribution channels we rely on scheduled commercial airline services for passenger connections, and increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services could undermine our customer base. a number of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to ports of embarkation for our cruises. increases in the price of airfare, due to increases in fuel prices or other factors, would increase the overall vacation cost to our guests and may adversely affect demand for our cruises. changes in commercial airline services as a result of strikes, weather or other events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings could adversely affect our ability to deliver guests to our cruises and/or increase our cruise operating expense. any delays in the construction and delivery of a cruise ship. delays in the construction, repair, refurbishment and delivery of a cruise ship can occur as a result of events such as insolvency, work stoppages, other labor actions or force majeure events experienced by our shipbuilders and other such companies that are beyond our control. any termination or breach of contract following such an event may result in, among other things, the forfeiture of prior deposits or payments made by us, potential claims and impairment of losses. a significant delay in the delivery of a new ship, or a significant performance deficiency or mechanical failure of a new ship, particularly in light of decreasing availability of dry-dock facilities, could have an adverse effect on our business. future epidemics and viral outbreaks. public perception about the safety of travel and adverse publicity related to passenger or crew illness, such as incidents of h1n1, stomach flu, or other contagious diseases, may impact demand for cruises. if any wide-ranging health scare should occur, our business would likely be adversely affected. the political environment in certain countries where we operate is uncertain and our ability to operate our business as we have in the past may be restricted. we operate in waters and call at ports throughout the world, including geographic regions that, from time to time, have experienced political and civil unrest as well as insurrection and armed hostilities. adverse international events could affect demand for cruise products generally and could have an adverse effect on us. 33 table of contents adverse incidents involving cruise ships. the operation of cruise ships carries an inherent risk of loss caused by adverse weather conditions, maritime disaster, including, but not limited to, oil spills and other environmental mishaps, fire, mechanical failure, collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action, civil unrest and insurrection in various countries and other circumstances or events. any such event may result in loss of life or property, loss of revenue or increased costs. the operation of cruise ships also involves the risk of other incidents at sea or while in port, including missing guests, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior and onboard crimes, that may bring into question passenger safety, may adversely affect future industry performance and may lead to litigation against us. although we place passenger safety as the highest priority in the design and operation of our fleet, we have experienced accidents and other incidents involving our cruise ships and there can be no assurance that similar events will not occur in the future. it is possible that we could be forced to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these factors or incur increased port related and other costs resulting from such adverse events. any such event involving our cruise ships or other passenger cruise ships may adversely affect guests perceptions of safety or result in increased governmental or other regulatory oversight. an adverse judgment or settlement in respect of any of the ongoing claims against us may also lead to negative publicity about us. anything that damages our reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about passenger safety, could have an adverse impact on demand, which could lead to price discounting and a reduction in our sales. there can be no assurance that all risks are fully insured against or that any particular claim will be fully paid. such losses, to the extent they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could affect our financial results. in addition, we have been and continue to be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity coverage for tort liability. our payment of these calls and increased premiums could result in significant expenses to us which could reduce our cash flows. if we were to sustain significant losses in the future, our ability to obtain insurance coverage or coverage at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely affected. breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results. the integrity and reliability of our information technology systems and other networks are crucial to our business operations. we have made significant investments in our information technology systems to optimize booking procedures, enhance the marketing power of our website and control costs. any unauthorized use of our information systems to gain access to sensitive information, corrupt data or create general disturbances in our operations systems could impair our ability to conduct business and damage our reputation. while we have information technology security and recovery plans in place, we cannot completely insulate ourselves from cyber-related risks. amendments to the collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may adversely affect our financial results. currently, we are a party to six collective bargaining agreements. three of these agreements were recently renegotiated and are in effect through 2014. of the three remaining collective bargaining agreements, two are scheduled to expire in 2018 and one is scheduled to expire in 2020. upon appropriate notice, the agreements may be reopened at certain yearly intervals, and we received notice from two of the parties to reopen wage/benefit negotiations in 2012. these negotiations were completed and effective from april 2012 without material cost to the company. any future amendments to such collective bargaining agreements or inability to satisfactorily renegotiate such agreements may increase our labor costs and have a negative impact on our financial condition. in addition, our collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a disruption in work on our ships in the future. any such disruptions in work could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. unavailability of ports of call. we believe that attractive port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. any limitations on the availability of our ports of call could adversely affect our business. 34 table of contents the loss of key personnel or our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel. we rely upon the ability, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our senior management team. our success is dependent upon our personnel and our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. the loss of services of any of the key members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our business. see management for additional information about our management personnel. the leadership of our president and chief executive officer, mr. sheehan, and other executive officers has been a critical element of our success. the death or disability of mr. sheehan or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also adversely affect us. we are not protected by key man or similar life insurance covering members of our senior management. we have employment agreements with our executive officers, but these agreements do not guarantee that any given executive will remain with us. we are controlled by the sponsors, who hold a significant percentage of nclh ordinary shares and whose interests may not be aligned with ours. the majority of nclh voting ordinary shares are held by affiliates of genting hk, the apollo funds and the tpg viking funds. the shareholders agreement governing the relationship among those parties gives the apollo funds effective control over our affairs and policies, subject to certain limitations. genting hk and the apollo funds also control the election of our board of directors, the appointment of management, the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other material transactions. the directors appointed by genting hk and the apollo funds have the authority, on our behalf and subject to the terms of our debt agreements and the shareholders agreement, to issue additional ordinary shares, implement share repurchase programs, declare dividends, pay advisory fees and make other decisions, and they may have an interest in our doing so. furthermore, genting hk engages in the cruise industry and leisure, entertainment and hospitality activities and apollo and tpg are in the business of managing investment funds which make investments in companies and one or more of which has now and may from time to time acquire hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, as well as businesses that represent major guests of our business. investment funds managed by genting hk, apollo and/or tpg may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as nclh current shareholders continue to control a significant amount of its outstanding voting ordinary shares, such shareholders will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. additionally, the concentration of ownership held by nclh current shareholders could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination. risks related to the regulatory environment in which we operate future changes in applicable tax laws, or our inability to take advantage of favorable tax regimes. we believe and have taken the position that our income that is considered to be derived from the international operation of ships as well as certain income that is considered to be incidental to such income ( shipping income ), is exempt from u.s. federal income taxes under section 883 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), based upon certain assumptions as to shareholdings and other information as more fully described in item 1 business regulatory issues taxation exemption of operating income from u.s. federal income taxation. the provisions of section 883 of the code are subject to change at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. 35 table of contents we believe and have taken the position that substantially all of our income derived from the international operation of ships is properly categorized as shipping income and that we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. it is possible, however, that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which nclh will satisfy complex stock ownership tests under section 883 of the code as described in item 1 business regulatory issues taxation exemption of operating income from u.s. federal income taxation. there are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of nclh ordinary shares, that could cause us or our subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. finally, any changes in our operations could significantly increase our exposure to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in item 1 business taxation of operating income: in general ), and we can give no assurances on this matter. if we or any of our subsidiaries were not to qualify for the exemption under section 883 of the code, our or such subsidiary u.s.-source income would be subject to either the net tax regime or to the 4% regime (each as defined in item 1 business regulatory issues taxation taxation of operating income: in general ). as of the date of this filing, we believe that nclh and its subsidiaries will satisfy the stock ownership tests imposed under section 883 and therefore believe that nclh will qualify for the exemption under section 883. however, as discussed above, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause nclh to not meet the stock ownership tests. therefore, we can give no assurances on this matter. we refer you to item 1 business regulatory issues taxation exemption of operating income from u.s. federal income taxation. we may be subject to state, local and non-u.s. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. we may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. our state, local or non-u.s. tax treatment may not conform to the u.s. federal income tax treatment discussed above. we may be required to pay non-u.s. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property that may give rise to non-u.s. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial. the various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. these tax regimes, however, are subject to change. moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law. we are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue. some environmental groups have lobbied for more extensive oversight of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise industry and its environmental impact. increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations on environmental protection and health and safety of workers could affect our operations. the u.s. environmental protection agency, the imo (a united nations agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution by ships), the council of the european union and individual states are considering, as well as implementing, new laws and rules to manage cruise ship waste. in addition, many aspects of the cruise industry are subject to governmental regulation by the u.s. coast guard as well as international treaties such as the international convention for the safety of life at sea ( solas ), an international safety regulation, the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships ( marpol ), an international environmental regulation and the standard of training certification and watchkeeping for seafarers ( stcw ) and its recently adopted conventions in ship manning. international regulations regarding ballast water and security levels are currently pending. additionally, the u.s. and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements or further restricting emissions, including those of green house gases. compliance with such laws and regulations may entail significant expenses for ship modification and changes in operating procedures which could adversely impact our operations as well as our competitors operations. in addition, the state of alaska approved stringent regulations in 2008 concerning waste water discharge. in 2010, alaska issued a final permit that regulates discharges of treated wastewater from cruise ships for the summer tourist seasons running from 2010 to 2012. the permit provides for the cruise companies to gather data on performance of new shipboard environmental control systems that will allow a scientific review committee to advise state officials on improving the regulations. the international labor organization maritime labor convention, 2006 is expected to become international law on august 20, 2013, now that thirty member countries with a total share of at least 33% of the world gross tonnage of ships have signed the agreement. it will regulate many aspects of maritime crew labor and will impact the worldwide sourcing of new crewmembers. 36 table of contents these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. by virtue of our operations in the u.s., the u.s. federal maritime commission ( fmc ) requires us to maintain a third-party performance guarantee on our behalf in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to guests. the fmc has proposed rules that would significantly increase the amount of our required guarantees and accordingly our cost of compliance. there can be no assurance that such an increase in the amount of our guarantees, if required, would be available to us. for additional discussion of the fmc proposed requirements, we refer you to item 4 information on the company regulatory issues. in 2007, the state of alaska implemented taxes which have impacted the cruise industry operating in alaska. it is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that our ships regularly visit may also decide to assess new taxes or fees or change existing taxes or fees specifically applicable to the cruise industry and its employees and/or guests, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises. changes in health, safety, security and other regulatory issues. we are subject to various international, national, state and local health, safety and security laws and regulations. for additional discussion of these requirements, we refer you to item 1 business regulatory issues. changes in existing legislation or regulations and the imposition of new requirements could adversely affect our business. implementation of u.s. federal regulations, requiring u.s. citizens to obtain passports for seaborne travel to all foreign destinations, could adversely affect our business. many cruise guests may not currently have passports or may not obtain a passport card (previously known as the people access security service card, or pass card) as an alternative to a passport. this card was created to meet the documentary requirements of the western hemisphere travel initiative. applications for the card have been accepted since february 1, 2008 and the cards were made available to the public beginning in july 2008. we may become subject to taxes in bermuda after march 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. under current bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on income or capital gains. we have received from the minister of finance under the exempted undertakings tax protection act 1966, as amended, an assurance that, in the event that bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance, then the imposition of any such tax shall not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or shares, debentures or other obligations, until march 31, 2035. we could be subject to taxes in bermuda after that date. this assurance is subject to the proviso that it is not to be construed to prevent the application of any tax or duty to such persons as are ordinarily resident in bermuda or to prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the land tax act 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to any property leased to us. we pay annual bermuda government fees. we are a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of nasdaq and, as a result, rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. on january 18, 2013, nclh listed its ordinary shares on the nasdaq global select market and genting hk, the apollo funds and the tpg viking funds, or their respective affiliates, together continue to control a majority of its ordinary shares. as a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of a national securities exchange. under the rules of a national securities exchange, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement: that a majority of its board of directors consists of independent directors; that nclh have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities; that nclh have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities; and 37 table of contents for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. nclh has utilized these exemptions. as a result, nclh does not have a majority of independent directors nor is nclh required to have any independent directors on its nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees, and nclh is not required to have an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. accordingly, its shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to a national securities exchange general corporate governance requirements (without giving effect to the controlled company exemptions). risks related to our ordinary shares shareholders of our company may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than as shareholders of a u.s. corporation. we are a bermuda exempted company. the companies act 1981 of bermuda (the companies act ), which applies to our company, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. taken together with the provisions of our bye-laws, some of these differences may result in you having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of our company than you would have as a shareholder of a u.s. corporation. this affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the companies act or our bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. the market price for our ordinary shares could be subject to wide fluctuations. the market price for our ordinary shares could be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results; the public reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec; sales of large blocks of our ordinary shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, including sales by our directors, officers and controlling shareholder; market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy; announcements of new itineraries or services or the introduction of new ships by us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; conditions in the cruise industry; price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets generally; announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; our involvement in significant acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures; changes in government and environmental regulation; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; additions or departures of key personnel; changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the u.s. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war and responses to such events; or potential litigation. in addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. these market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares. 38 table of contents the substantial number of ordinary shares that will be eligible for sale in the near future may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. we have an aggregate of 203,997,492 ordinary shares issued and outstanding. our ordinary shares sold in the ipo were eligible for immediate resale in the public market without restrictions, and those held by our controlling shareholders and key employees may also be sold in the public market in the future subject to applicable lock-up agreements as well as the restrictions contained in rule 144 under the securities act of 1933, as amended, or the securities act. if our controlling shareholders sell a substantial amount of our ordinary shares after the expiration of the lock-up period, the prevailing market price for our ordinary shares could be adversely affected. upon the consummation of the ipo, there were an aggregate of 5,761,291 outstanding management ncl corporation units, which represented a 2.7% economic interest in nclc. in connection with the consummation of the ipo, we entered into an exchange agreement with nclc. pursuant to the exchange agreement, and subject to certain procedures and restrictions (including the vesting schedules applicable to the management ncl corporation units and any applicable legal and contractual restrictions), each holder of management ncl corporation units has the right to cause nclc and us to exchange the holder management ncl corporation units for our ordinary shares at an exchange rate equal to one ordinary share for every management ncl corporation unit (or, at nclc election, a cash payment equal to the value of the exchanged management ncl corporation units), subject to customary adjustments for stock splits, subdivisions, combinations and similar extraordinary events. the exchange right described above is subject to (i) the filing and effectiveness of an applicable registration statement by us that, in our determination, contains all the information which is required to effect a registered sale of our shares and (ii) all applicable legal and contractual restrictions, including those imposed by the lock-up agreements entered into in connection with the ipo. we have reserved for issuance a number of our ordinary shares corresponding to the number of management ncl corporation units. following the expiration of the 180-day lock-up agreements entered into in connection with the ipo, we intend to file a registration statement with the sec to register on a continuous basis the issuance of the ordinary shares to be received by the holders of management ncl corporation units who elect to exchange. we may issue our ordinary shares or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. if any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of ordinary shares, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. we may also grant registration rights covering those ordinary shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. we granted approximately 3.3 million options to acquire our ordinary shares to our management team under our new long-term incentive plan in connection with the ipo. we have filed a registration statement on form s-8 under the securities act covering the ordinary shares reserved for issuance under our new long-term incentive plan (including the shares subject to the new option grants). accordingly, 15,035,106 ordinary shares registered under such registration statement will be available for sale in the open market upon exercise or other acquisition by the holders, subject to vesting restrictions, rule 144 limitations applicable to our affiliates and contractual lock-up provisions. we do not intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares at any time in the foreseeable future. we do not currently intend to pay dividends to our shareholders and our board of directors may never declare a dividend. our debt agreements limit or prohibit, and any of our future debt arrangements may restrict, among other things, the ability of our subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay distributions to nclh and our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. in addition, any determination to pay dividends in the future will be entirely at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, business opportunities, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. we are not legally or contractually required to pay dividends. in addition, we are a holding company and would depend upon our subsidiaries for their ability to pay distributions to us to finance any dividend or pay any other obligations of nclh. investors seeking dividends should not purchase our ordinary shares. provisions in our constitutional documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. our bye-laws contain provisions that may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders consider to be in their best interests. as a result, these provisions may prevent our shareholders from receiving a premium to the market price of our shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. these provisions include (subject to the shareholders agreement): 39 table of contents the ability of our board of directors to designate one or more series of preference shares and issue preference shares without shareholder approval; a classified board of directors; the sole power of a majority of our board of directors to fix the number of directors; the power of our board of directors to fill any vacancy on our board of directors in most circumstances, including when such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; and advance notice requirements for nominating directors or introducing other business to be conducted at shareholder meetings. additionally, our bye-laws contain provisions that prevent third parties, other than the apollo funds, the tpg viking funds and genting hk, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors and provide for the lapse of rights, and sale, of any shares acquired in excess of that limit. the effect of these provisions as well as the significant ownership of ordinary shares by our existing shareholders, the apollo funds, the tpg viking funds and genting hk, may preclude third parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us in transactions that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. any issuance of preference shares could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our ordinary shares, which could depress the price of our ordinary shares. our board of directors has the authority to issue preference shares and to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preference shares and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our shareholders, subject to the shareholders agreement. our preference shares could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our ordinary shares. the potential issuance of preference shares may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price, and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares.risk factors 25 risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. if any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements. risk factors related to our business the specific risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, could cause our actual results to differ from our expected or historical results and individually or any combination thereof could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the adverse impact of general economic and related factors such as high levels of unemployment and underemployment, fuel price increases, declines in the securities and real estate markets, and perceptions of these conditions can decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate, such as higher fuel prices, higher interest rates, stock and real estate market declines and/or volatility, more restrictive credit markets, higher taxes, and changes in governmental policies could reduce the level of discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our guests. an increase in cruise capacity without a corresponding increase in passenger demand, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. historically, cruise capacity has grown to meet the growth in demand. according to clia, 17.6 million passengers in 2013 took cruises on clia member lines versus 7.2 million passengers in 2000, representing a compound annual growth rate of approximately 7.1%. clia estimates that between 2013 and 2016, the north america based clia member line fleet will increase by approximately 29 ships, representing a compound annual capacity growth of 3.4%. in order to profitably utilize this new capacity, the cruise industry 25 table of contents will likely need to improve its percentage share of the u.s. population who has cruised at least once, which is approximately 24%, according to clia. if there is an industry-wide increase in capacity without a corresponding increase in public demand, we, as well as the entire cruise industry, could experience reduced occupancy rates and/or be forced to discount our prices. in addition, increased cruise capacity could impact our ability to retain and attract qualified shipboard employees, including officers, at competitive levels and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. we face intense competition from other cruise companies as well as non-cruise vacation alternatives and we may not be able to compete effectively. we face intense competition from other cruise companies, primarily the other major north american cruise brands, which together comprise approximately 90% of the north american cruise market as measured by total berths. these brands include carnival cruise lines and royal caribbean international in the contemporary segment and holland america, princess cruises and celebrity cruises in the premium segment. as of december 31, 2013, norwegian cruise line accounted for approximately 13% of the major north american cruise brands capacity in terms of berths. we compete against all of these operators principally on the quality of our ships, our differentiated product offering, selection of our itineraries and value proposition of our cruises. we also face competition for many itineraries from other cruise operators as well as competition from non-cruise vacation alternatives. in the event we do not compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments. our level of indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our financial condition, operations, prospects and flexibility. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $3.1 billion of total debt. our substantial indebtedness could: limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; make us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; restrict us from taking certain actions by means of restrictive covenants; make our credit card processors seek more restrictive terms in respect of our credit card arrangements; and expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at a variable rate of interest. based on our december 31, 2013 outstanding variable rate debt balance, a one percentage point increase in the libor interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $19.4 million, excluding the effects of capitalization of interest. in addition, future financings we may undertake may also provide for rates that fluctuate with prevailing interest rates. negative publicity surrounding the cruise industry may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. negative publicity, or heightened media scrutiny of the cruise industry, due to incidents relating to vessel operation, environmental or natural disasters such as hurricanes, epidemics and viral outbreaks aboard a vessel, or any occurrence which brings into question the safety and security of the industry may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations including the decrease in demand for cruise vacations and a damage to the reputation of the cruise industry as a safe and reliable vacation alternative. the considerable expansion in the use of social media in recent years can further amplify any negative publicity that may be generated. 26 table of contents increases in fuel prices and/or other cruise operating costs would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. fuel expense accounted for 18.3% of our total cruise operating expense in 2013, 19.2% in 2012 and 16.6% in 2011. future increases in the cost of fuel globally would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. in addition, we could experience increases in other cruise operating costs, due to market forces and economic or political instability beyond our control. conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and risks. we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including political risks, risks of increase in duties and taxes, risks relating to anti-bribery laws, as well as changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies. because some of our expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, we are exposed to exchange rate risks. additional risks include interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. we have implemented safeguards and policies to prevent violations of various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. if employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions, or severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt or issue certain preference shares; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our share capital or make other restricted payments, including the ability of nclc to make distributions or other restricted payments to nclh; make certain investments; sell certain assets; create liens on certain assets; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our existing debt agreements. if any of the holders of our indebtedness accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. under our existing debt agreements we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. a failure to comply with the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements could result in an event of default under the agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the event of any default under our existing debt agreements, the holders of our indebtedness thereunder: will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us, if applicable; could elect to declare all indebtedness outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, if applicable; and/or could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay such indebtedness. such actions by the holders of our indebtedness could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of our indebtedness under our existing senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. 27 table of contents if the indebtedness under our existing debt agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt. this could intensify the risks described above. we may be able to incur substantial indebtedness at any time in the future. although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things: our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and our future ability to borrow under certain of our existing senior secured credit facilities, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in such existing senior secured credit facilities. there can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to draw under certain of our existing senior secured credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. in addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. in the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. neither our sponsors nor any of their respective affiliates has any continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing. the impact of volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to borrow additional money on terms as favorable as our current debt, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. some of the counterparties under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees may be unable to perform their obligations or may breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include failures of financial institutions to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements and to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts and other agreements. also, we may be limited in obtaining funds to pay amounts due to our counterparties under our derivative contracts and to pay amounts that may become due under other agreements. if we were to elect to replace any counterparty for their failure to perform their obligations under such instruments, we would likely incur significant costs to replace the counterparty. any failure to replace any counterparties under these circumstances may result in additional costs to us or an ineffective instrument. terrorist acts, acts of piracy, armed conflict and threats thereof, and other international events impacting the security of travel could adversely affect the demand for cruises. past acts of terrorism have had an adverse effect on tourism, travel and the availability of air service and other forms of transportation. the threat or possibility of future terrorist acts, an outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict abroad or the possibility thereof, the issuance of travel advisories by national governments, and other geo-political uncertainties have had in the past and may again in the future have an adverse impact on the demand for cruises and consequently the pricing for cruises. decreases in demand and reduced pricing in response to such decreased demand would adversely affect our business by reducing our profitability. we rely on external distribution channels for passenger bookings, and major changes in the availability of external distribution channels could undermine our customer base. in 2013, the majority of our guests booked their cruises through independent travel agents. in the event that the travel agent distribution channel is adversely impacted by the worldwide economic downturn, or other reason, this could reduce the distribution channels available for us to market and sell our cruises and we could be forced to increase the use of alternative distribution channels. 28 table of contents we rely on scheduled commercial airline services for passenger connections, and increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services could undermine our customer base. a number of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to ports of embarkation for our cruises. increases in the price of airfare, due to increases in fuel prices or other factors, would increase the overall vacation cost to our guests and may adversely affect demand for our cruises. changes in commercial airline services as a result of strikes, weather or other events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings could adversely affect our ability to deliver guests to our cruises and/or increase our cruise operating expense. any delays in the construction and delivery of a cruise ship could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. delays in the construction, repair, refurbishment and delivery of a cruise ship can occur as a result of events such as insolvency, work stoppages, other labor actions or force majeure events experienced by our shipbuilders and other such companies that are beyond our control. any termination or breach of contract following such an event may result in, among other things, the forfeiture of prior deposits or payments made by us, potential claims and impairment of losses. a significant delay in the delivery of a new ship, or a significant performance deficiency or mechanical failure of a new ship, particularly in light of decreasing availability of dry-dock facilities, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. epidemics and viral outbreaks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. public perception about the safety of travel and adverse publicity related to passenger or crew illness, such as incidents of h1n1, stomach flu, or other contagious diseases, may impact demand for cruises. if any wide-ranging health scare should occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. the political environment in certain countries where we operate is uncertain and our ability to operate our business as we have in the past may be restricted. we operate in waters and call at ports throughout the world, including geographic regions that, from time to time, have experienced political and civil unrest as well as insurrection and armed hostilities. adverse international events could affect demand for cruise products generally and could have an adverse effect on us. adverse incidents involving cruise ships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships carries an inherent risk of loss caused by adverse weather conditions, maritime disaster, including, but not limited to, oil spills and other environmental mishaps, fire, mechanical failure, collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action, civil unrest and insurrection in various countries and other circumstances or events. any such event may result in loss of life or property, loss of revenue or increased costs. the operation of cruise ships also involves the risk of other incidents at sea or while in port, including missing guests, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior and onboard crimes, which may bring into question passenger safety, may adversely affect future industry performance and may lead to litigation against us. although we place passenger safety as the highest priority in the design and operation of our fleet, we have experienced accidents and other incidents involving our cruise ships and there can be no assurance that similar events will not occur in the future. it is possible that we could be forced to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these factors or incur increased port related and other costs resulting from such adverse events. any such event involving our cruise ships or other passenger cruise ships may adversely affect guests perceptions of safety or result in increased governmental or other regulatory oversight. an adverse judgment or settlement in respect of any of the ongoing claims against us may also lead to negative publicity about us. anything that damages our reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about passenger safety, could have an adverse impact on demand, which could lead to price discounting and a reduction in our sales and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that all risks are fully insured against or that any particular claim will be fully paid. such losses, to the extent they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could affect our financial results. in addition, we have been and continue to be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity coverage for tort liability. our payment of these calls and increased premiums could result in significant expenses to us which could reduce our cash flows. if we were to sustain significant losses in the future, our ability to obtain insurance coverage or coverage at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely affected. breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks could impair our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the integrity and reliability of our information technology systems and other networks are crucial to our business operations. we have made significant investments in our information technology systems to optimize booking procedures, enhance the marketing power of our website and control costs. any unauthorized use of our information systems to gain access to sensitive information, corrupt data or create general disturbances in our operations systems could impair our ability to conduct business and damage our reputation. if our security measures were breached, we could be exposed to cyber-related risks and malware and access to credit cards and other sensitive data could be at risk. 29 table of contents amendments to the collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may materially adversely affect our financial results. currently, we are a party to six collective bargaining agreements. three of these agreements are in effect through 2014. of the three remaining agreements, two are scheduled to expire in 2018 and one is scheduled to expire in 2020. upon appropriate notice, the agreements may be reopened at certain yearly intervals, and we received notice from one of the parties to reopen wage/benefit negotiations in 2013. these negotiations were completed and effective from july 2013 without material cost to the company. any future amendments to such collective bargaining agreements or inability to satisfactorily renegotiate such agreements may increase our labor costs and have a negative impact on our financial condition. in addition, our collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a disruption in work on our ships in the future. any such disruptions in work could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. unavailability of ports of call may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe that attractive port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. any limitations on the availability of our ports of call could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the loss of key personnel or our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely upon the ability, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our senior management team. our success is dependent upon our personnel and our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. the loss of services of any of the key members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see item 1 business executive officers for additional information about our management personnel. the leadership of our president and chief executive officer, mr. sheehan, and other executive officers has been a critical element of our success. the death or disability of mr. sheehan or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also materially adversely affect us. we are not protected by key man or similar life insurance covering members of our senior management. we have employment agreements with our executive officers, but these agreements do not guarantee that any given executive will remain with us. risks related to the regulatory environment in which we operate future changes in applicable tax laws, or our inability to take advantage of favorable tax regimes, could increase the amount of taxes we must pay. we believe and have taken the position that our income that is considered to be derived from the international operation of ships as well as certain income that is considered to be incidental to such income ( shipping income ), is exempt from u.s. federal income taxes under section 883 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), based upon certain assumptions as to shareholdings and other information as more fully described in item 1 business regulatory issues taxation exemption of operating income from u.s. federal income taxation. the provisions of section 883 of the code are subject to change at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. we believe and have taken the position that substantially all of our income derived from the international operation of ships is properly categorized as shipping income and that we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. it is possible, however, that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which nclh will satisfy complex stock ownership tests under section 883 of the code as described in item 1 business regulatory issues taxation exemption of operating income from u.s. federal income taxation. there are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of nclh ordinary shares, which could cause us or our subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. finally, any changes in our operations could significantly increase our exposure to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in item 1 business taxation of operating income: in general ), and we can give no assurances on this matter. if we or any of our subsidiaries were not to qualify for the exemption under section 883 of the code, our or such subsidiary u.s.-source income would be subject to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in item 1 business regulatory issues taxation taxation of operating income: in general ). as of the date of this filing, we believe that nclh and its subsidiaries will satisfy the stock ownership tests imposed under section 883 and therefore believe that nclh will qualify for the 30 table of contents exemption under section 883. however, as discussed above, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause nclh to not meet the stock ownership tests. therefore, we can give no assurances on this matter. we refer you to item 1 business regulatory issues taxation exemption of operating income from u.s. federal income taxation. we may be subject to state, local and non-u.s. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. we may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. our state, local or non-u.s. tax treatment may not conform to the u.s. federal income tax treatment discussed above. we may be required to pay non-u.s. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property that may give rise to non-u.s. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial. the various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. these tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. for example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from u.s. federal income tax under section 883 of the code and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the united states. moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the us uk income tax treaty on income derived in respect of our u.s. flagged operation. we are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue. some environmental groups have lobbied for more extensive oversight of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise industry and its environmental impact. increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations on environmental protection and health and safety of workers could affect our operations. the u.s. environmental protection agency, the imo (a united nations agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution by ships), the council of the european union and individual states are considering, as well as implementing, new laws and rules to manage cruise ship waste. in addition, many aspects of the cruise industry are subject to governmental regulation by the u.s. coast guard as well as international treaties such as solas, an international safety regulation, marpol, an international environmental regulation, and stcw and its conventions in ship manning. international regulations regarding ballast water and security levels are currently pending. additionally, the u.s. and various state and foreign government and regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations and policies, such as requiring the use of low-sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements and further restricting emissions, including those of green-house gases. compliance with such laws and regulations may entail significant expenses for ship modification and changes in operating procedures which could adversely impact our operations as well as our competitors operations. in 2006, alaskan voters approved a ballot measure requiring that cruise ships meet alaska water quality standards ( wqs ). pursuant to the ballot measure, alaska approved stringent regulations and required a waste water discharge permit for cruise ships beginning in 2008. legislation approved in 2009 allowed the state to issue general permits that contain effluent limits or standards that are less stringent than the wqs where the ship is using economically feasible methods of pollution prevention. in 2013, the state extended the permit program, and allowed ship operators to apply for mixing zones in upcoming permits, an option that may ease compliance with certain wqs. the international labor organization maritime labor convention, 2006 went into force on august 20, 2013. the convention regulates many aspects of maritime crew labor and impacts the worldwide sourcing of new crewmembers. marpol regulations have established special emission control areas ( ecas ) with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions. ships operating in designated ecas (which include the baltic sea, the north sea/english channel, and many of the waters within 200 nautical miles of the u.s. and canadian coasts including the hawaiian islands; waters surrounding puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands have been included as of january 2014) are generally expected to meet the new emissions limits through the use of low-sulfur fuels. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. by virtue of our operations in the u.s., the fmc requires us to maintain a third-party performance guarantee on our behalf in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to guests. the fmc has proposed rules that would significantly increase the amount of our required guarantees and accordingly our cost of compliance. there can be no assurance that such an increase in the amount of our guarantees, if required, would be available to us. for additional discussion of the fmc proposed requirements, we refer you to item 1 business regulatory issues. in 2007, the state of alaska implemented taxes, some of which were rolled back in 2010, which have impacted the cruise industry operating in alaska. it is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that our ships regularly visit may also decide to assess new taxes or fees or change existing taxes or fees specifically applicable to the cruise industry and its employees and/or guests, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises. 31 table of contents changes in health, safety, security and other regulatory issues could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to various international, national, state and local health, safety and security laws and regulations. for additional discussion of these requirements, we refer you to item 1 business regulatory issues. changes in existing legislation or regulations and the imposition of new requirements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. implementation of u.s. federal regulations, requiring u.s. citizens to obtain passports for seaborne travel to all foreign destinations, could adversely affect our business. many cruise guests may not currently have passports or may not obtain a passport card (previously known as the people access security service card, or pass card) as an alternative to a passport. this card was created to meet the documentary requirements of the western hemisphere travel initiative. applications for the card have been accepted since february 1, 2008 and the cards were made available to the public beginning in july 2008. we may become subject to taxes in bermuda after march 31, 2035, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. under current bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on income or capital gains. we have received from the minister of finance under the exempted undertakings tax protection act 1966, as amended, an assurance that, in the event that bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance, then the imposition of any such tax shall not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or shares, debentures or other obligations, until march 31, 2035. we could be subject to taxes in bermuda after that date. this assurance is subject to the proviso that it is not to be construed to prevent the application of any tax or duty to such persons as are ordinarily resident in bermuda or to prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the land tax act 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to any property leased to us. we pay annual bermuda government fees. risks related to our ordinary shares we are a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of nasdaq and, as a result, rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. on january 18, 2013, nclh listed its ordinary shares on the nasdaq global select market and genting hk, the apollo funds and the tpg viking funds, or their respective affiliates, together continue to control a majority of its ordinary shares. as a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of nasdaq. under the rules of nasdaq, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement: that a majority of its board of directors consists of independent directors; that nclh have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities; that nclh have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities; and for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. nclh has utilized these exemptions. as a result, nclh does not have a majority of independent directors nor is nclh required to have any independent directors on its nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees, and nclh is not required to have an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. accordingly, its shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to a national securities exchange general corporate governance requirements (without giving effect to the controlled company exemptions of nasdaq). we are controlled by the sponsors, who hold a significant percentage of nclh ordinary shares and whose interests may not be aligned with ours or our public shareholders. the majority of nclh voting ordinary shares are held by affiliates of genting hk, the apollo funds and the tpg viking funds. the shareholders agreement governing the relationship among those parties gives the apollo funds effective control over our affairs and policies, subject to certain limitations. genting hk and the apollo funds also control the election of our board of directors, the appointment of management, the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other material transactions. the directors appointed by genting hk and the apollo funds have the authority, on our behalf and subject to the terms of our debt agreements and the shareholders agreement, to issue additional ordinary shares, implement share repurchase programs, declare dividends, pay advisory fees and make other decisions, and they may have an interest in our doing so. the interests of genting hk, the apollo funds and the tpg viking funds could conflict with our public shareholders interests in material respects. 32 table of contents furthermore, genting hk engages in the cruise industry and leisure, entertainment and hospitality activities and apollo and tpg are in the business of managing investment funds which make investments in companies and one or more of which has now and may from time to time hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, as well as businesses that represent major guests of our business. investment funds managed by genting hk, apollo and/or tpg may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as nclh sponsors continue to control a significant amount of its outstanding voting ordinary shares, such shareholders will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. additionally, the concentration of ownership held by nclh sponsors could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination. shareholders of our company may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than as shareholders of a u.s. corporation. we are a bermuda exempted company. the companies act 1981 of bermuda (the companies act ), which applies to our company, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. taken together with the provisions of our bye-laws, some of these differences may result in you having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of our company than you would have as a shareholder of a u.s. corporation. this affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the companies act or our bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. the market price for our ordinary shares could be subject to wide fluctuations. the market price for our ordinary shares could be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results; the public reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec; sales of large blocks of our ordinary shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, including sales by our directors, officers and sponsors; market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy; announcements of new itineraries or services or the introduction of new ships by us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; conditions in the cruise industry; price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets generally; announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; our involvement in significant acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures; changes in government and environmental regulation; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; additions or departures of key personnel; changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the u.s. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war and responses to such events; or potential litigation. in addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. these market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares. the substantial number of ordinary shares that will be eligible for sale in the near future may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. there were 205,160,340 ordinary shares of nclh issued and outstanding as of december 31, 2013. the ordinary shares (i) issued in connection with our ipo, (ii) sold in secondary offerings completed in august and december 2013, by the sponsors, (iii) issued or to be issued under our new long-term incentive plan or (iv) issued or to be issued in exchange for management ncl corporation units are or will be freely transferable, except for any shares held by our affiliates, as that term is defined in rule 144 under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ). ordinary shares that continue to be held by our sponsors and key employees may also be sold in the public market in the future subject to the restrictions contained in rule 144 under the securities act. if our sponsors sell 33 table of contents a substantial amount of our ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ordinary shares could be adversely affected. if our sponsors continue to sell, it is possible that one or more sponsors may no longer own any of our ordinary shares. the uncertainty regarding the future ownership of the company by the sponsors could materially adversely impact our operations and the market price of our ordinary shares. as of december 31, 2013, there were an aggregate of 4,709,692 outstanding management ncl corporation units, which represent a 2.2% economic interest in nclc. in connection with the consummation of the ipo, we entered into an exchange agreement with nclc. pursuant to the exchange agreement, and subject to certain procedures and restrictions (including the vesting schedules applicable to the management ncl corporation units and any applicable legal and contractual restrictions), each holder of management ncl corporation units has the right to cause nclc and us to exchange the holder management ncl corporation units for our ordinary shares at an exchange rate equal to one ordinary share for every management ncl corporation unit (or, at nclc election, a cash payment equal to the value of the exchanged management ncl corporation units), subject to customary adjustments for stock splits, subdivisions, combinations and similar extraordinary events. we have reserved for issuance a number of our ordinary shares corresponding to the number of management ncl corporation units. on august 19, 2013, nclh filed a registration statement with the sec, which is effective, to register on a continuous basis the issuance of the ordinary shares to be received by the holders of management ncl corporation units who elected or will elect to exchange. we may issue our ordinary shares or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. if any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of ordinary shares, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. we may also grant registration rights covering those ordinary shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. we have granted approximately 5.0 million options to acquire our ordinary shares to our management team under our new long-term incentive plan. we filed a registration statement on form s-8 under the securities act covering the 15,035,106 ordinary shares reserved for issuance under our new long-term incentive plan (including the shares subject to the option grants described above). accordingly, ordinary shares registered under such registration statement will be available for sale in the open market upon exercise or other acquisition by the holders, subject to vesting restrictions, rule 144 limitations applicable to our affiliates and any applicable contractual lock-up provisions. we do not have current plans to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. we do not currently intend to pay dividends to our shareholders and our board of directors may never declare a dividend. our debt agreements limit or prohibit, and any of our future debt arrangements may restrict, among other things, the ability of our subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay distributions to nclh and our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. in addition, any determination to pay dividends in the future will be entirely at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, business opportunities, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. we are not legally or contractually required to pay dividends. in addition, we are a holding company and would depend upon our subsidiaries for their ability to pay distributions to us to finance any dividend or pay any other obligations of nclh. investors seeking dividends should not purchase our ordinary shares. provisions in our constitutional documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. our bye-laws contain provisions that may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders consider to be in their best interests. as a result, these provisions may prevent our shareholders from receiving a premium to the market price of our shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. these provisions include (subject to the shareholders agreement): the ability of our board of directors to designate one or more series of preference shares and issue preference shares without shareholder approval; a classified board of directors; the sole power of a majority of our board of directors to fix the number of directors; the power of our board of directors to fill any vacancy on our board of directors in most circumstances, including when such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; and advance notice requirements for nominating directors or introducing other business to be conducted at shareholder meetings. additionally, our bye-laws contain provisions that prevent third parties, other than the apollo funds, the tpg viking funds and genting hk, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors and provide for the lapse of rights, and sale, of any shares acquired in excess of that limit. the effect of these provisions as well as the significant ownership of ordinary shares by our sponsors may preclude third parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us in transactions that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. 34 table of contents any issuance of preference shares could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our ordinary shares, which could depress the price of our ordinary shares. our board of directors has the authority to issue preference shares and to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preference shares and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our shareholders, subject to the shareholders agreement. our preference shares could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our ordinary shares. the potential issuance of preference shares may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price, and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 47 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we attempt to minimize these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivatives. the financial impacts of these derivative instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivatives with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes. derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2013, we had interest rate swap agreements to modify our exposure to interest rate movements and to manage our interest expense. as of december 31, 2013, 38% of our debt was fixed and 62% was variable, which includes the effects of the interest rate swap. the notional amount of outstanding debt associated with the interest rate swap agreements as of december 31, 2013 was $660.4 million. based on our december 31, 2013 outstanding variable rate debt balance, a one percentage point increase in annual libor interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $19.4 million excluding the effects of capitalization of interest. foreign currency exchange rate risk as of december 31, 2013, we had foreign currency derivatives to hedge the exposure to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates related to our ship construction contracts denominated in euros. these derivatives hedge the foreign currency exchange rate risk on a portion of the final payments on our ship construction contracts. the payments not hedged aggregate 1.4 billion, or $1.9 billion based on the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate as of december 31, 2013. we estimate that a 10% change in the euro as of december 31, 2013 would result in a $189.9 million change in the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated remaining payments. fuel price risk our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices relates to the forecasted purchases of fuel on our ships. fuel expense, as a percentage of our total cruise operating expense, was 18.3%, 19.2% and 16.6% for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 respectively. we use fuel derivative agreements to mitigate the financial impact of fluctuations in fuel prices and as of december 31, 2013, we had hedged approximately 65%, 53% and 15% of our 2014, 2015 and 2016 projected metric tons of fuel purchases, respectively. we estimate that a 10% increase in our weighted-average fuel price would increase our anticipated 2014 fuel expense by $30.8 million. this increase would be partially offset by an increase in the fair value of our fuel swap agreements and fuel collars and options of $16.3 million. fair value of our derivative contracts is derived using valuation models that utilize the income valuation approach. these valuation models take into account the contract terms such as maturity, as well as other inputs such as fuel types, fuel curves, creditworthiness of the counterparty and the company, as well as other data points.risk factors 25 risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. if any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the ordering of the risk factors set forth below is not intended to reflect an indication of priority or likelihood. in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under cautionary statement concerning forward looking statements. risks related to the company terrorist acts, armed conflict and threats thereof, acts of piracy, and other international events impacting the security of travel could adversely affect the demand for cruises. the threat or possibility of future terrorist acts, an outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict abroad or the possibility or fear of such events, political unrest and instability, the issuance of travel advisories or elevated national threat warnings by national governments, an increase in the activity of pirates, and other geo-political uncertainties have had in the past and may again in the future have an adverse impact on the demand for cruises, and consequently, the pricing for cruises. decreases in demand and reduced pricing in response to such decreased demand would adversely affect our business by reducing our profitability. adverse incidents involving cruise ships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships carries an inherent risk of loss caused by adverse weather conditions and maritime disasters, including, but not limited to, oil spills and other environmental mishaps, extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes, floods and typhoons, fire, mechanical failure, collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action, civil unrest and insurrection in various countries and other circumstances or events. any such event may result in loss of life or property, loss of revenue or increased costs and the frequency and severity of natural disasters may increase due to climate change. the operation of cruise ships also involves the risk of other incidents at sea or while in port, including missing guests, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior and onboard crimes, which may bring into question passenger safety, may adversely affect future industry performance and may lead to litigation against us. although we place passenger safety as the highest priority in the design and operation of our fleet, we have experienced accidents and other incidents involving our cruise ships and there can be no assurance that similar events will not occur in the future. it is possible that we could be forced to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these factors or incur increased port-related and other costs resulting from such adverse events. any such event involving our cruise ships or other passenger cruise ships may adversely affect guests' perceptions of safety or result in increased governmental or other regulatory oversight. an adverse judgment or settlement in respect of any of the ongoing claims against us may also lead to negative publicity about us. the expanded use of social media has increased the speed that negative publicity spreads and makes it more difficult to mitigate reputational damage. anything that damages our reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about passenger safety, could have an adverse impact on demand, which could lead to price discounting and a reduction in our sales and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and 25 table of contents results of operations. if there is a significant accident, mechanical failure or similar problem involving a ship, we may have to place a ship in an extended dry-dock period for repairs. this could result in material lost revenue and/or increased expenditures. the adverse impact of general economic and related factors, such as fluctuating or increasing levels of unemployment, underemployment and the volatility of fuel prices, declines in the securities and real estate markets and perceptions of these conditions can decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate in north america or globally, such as the volatility of fuel prices, higher interest rates, stock and real estate market declines and/or volatility, more restrictive credit markets, higher unemployment or underemployment rates, higher taxes, changes in governmental policies and political developments impacting international trade, trade disputes and increased tariffs, could reduce the level of discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our guests. consequently, this may negatively affect demand for cruise vacations in these countries, which are a discretionary purchase. decreases in demand for cruise vacations could result in price discounting, which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. in addition, these conditions could also impact our suppliers, which could result in disruptions in our suppliers' services and financial losses for us. epidemics and viral outbreaks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. public perception about the safety of travel and adverse publicity related to passenger or crew illness, such as incidents of viral illnesses, stomach flu or other contagious diseases may impact demand for cruises and result in cruise cancellations and employee absenteeism. for example, the recent outbreak of the covid-19 coronavirus has resulted in costs and lost revenue related to customer compensation, itinerary modifications, travel restrictions and advisories, the unavailability of ports and/or destinations, cancellations and redeployments and has impacted consumer sentiment regarding cruise travel. the spread of the covid-19 coronavirus, particularly in north america, could exacerbate its effect on us. any future wide-ranging health scares would also likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks or our actual or perceived failure to comply with requirements regarding data privacy and protection could impair our operations, subject us to significant fines, penalties and damages, and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the integrity and reliability of our information technology systems and networks are crucial to our business operations and disruptions to these systems or networks could impair our operations, have an adverse impact on our financial results and negatively affect our reputation and customer demand. in addition, certain networks are dependent on third-party technologies, systems and service providers for which there is no certainty of uninterrupted availability. among other things, actual or threatened natural disasters, information systems failures, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other cyber-attacks may cause disruptions to our information technology, telecommunications and other networks. our business continuity, disaster recovery, data restoration plans and data and information technology security may not prevent disruptions that could result in adverse effects on our operations and financial results. we carry limited business interruption insurance for certain shoreside operations, subject to limitations, exclusions and deductibles. as part of our ordinary business operations, we and certain of our third-party service providers collect, process, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information. the security of the systems and networks where we and our service providers store this data is a critical element of our business. our systems and networks may be vulnerable to computer viruses, malware, worms, hackers and other security issues, including physical and electronic break-ins, router disruption, sabotage or espionage, disruptions from unauthorized access and tampering (including through social engineering such as phishing attacks), impersonation of authorized users and coordinated denial-of-service attacks. for example, in october 2018, we discovered limited instances of unauthorized access to certain employee e-mail communications, some of which contained proprietary business and personally identifiable information. we have 26 table of contents implemented additional safeguards, and we do not believe that we experienced any material losses related to this incident; however, there can be no assurance that this or any other breach or incident will not have a material impact on our operations and financial results in the future. in addition, we may not be in a position to promptly address security breaches, unauthorized access or other cyber-attacks or incidents or to implement adequate preventative measures if we are unable to immediately detect such incidents. our failure to successfully prevent, mitigate or timely respond to such incidents could impair our ability to conduct business and damage our reputation. we are also subject to laws in multiple jurisdictions relating to the privacy and protection of personal data, including the european union's general data protection regulation and the california consumer privacy act. noncompliance with these and other privacy laws or the compromise of information systems used by us or our service providers resulting in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to the personally identifiable information of our guests, prospective guests, employees or vendors could result in governmental investigation, civil liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, any or all of which could disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our business. additionally, any material failure by us or our service providers to maintain compliance with the payment card industry security requirements or to rectify a data security issue may result in fines and restrictions on our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment. the regulatory framework for data privacy and protection is uncertain for the foreseeable future, and it is possible that legal and regulatory obligations may continue to increase and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent or possibly conflicting from one jurisdiction to another. in the event of a data security breach of our systems and/or third-party systems or a cyber-attack or other cyber incident, we may incur costs associated with the following: response, notification, forensics, regulatory investigations, public relations, consultants, credit identity monitoring, credit freezes, fraud alert, credit identity restoration, credit card cancellation, credit card reissuance or replacement, data restoration, regulatory fines and penalties, vendor fines and penalties, legal fees, damages and settlements. in addition, data security breaches, a cyber-attack or other cyber incident may cause business interruption, information technology disruption, disruptions as a result of regulatory investigation or litigation, digital asset loss related to corrupted or destroyed data, loss of company assets, damage to our reputation, damages to intangible property and other intangible damages, such as loss of consumer confidence, all of which could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results. changes in fuel prices and the type of fuel we are permitted to use and/or other cruise operating costs would impact the cost of our cruise ship operations and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increased costs related to fuel prices. fuel expense is a significant cost for our company. future increases in the cost of fuel globally or regulatory requirements which require us to use more expensive types of fuel would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. for example, as of january 2020, the imo's convention entitled prevention of pollution from ships (marpol) set a global limit on fuel sulfur content of 0.5% (reduced from the previous 3.5% global limit). various compliance methods, such as the use of low-sulfur fuels or exhaust gas cleaning systems that reduce an equivalent amount of sulfur emissions, may be utilized. we have elected to install exhaust gas cleaning systems on some ships in our fleet, which will allow us to continue to use high-sulfur fuel on those ships in certain areas. however, if exhaust gas cleaning systems are not widely used in the industry, low demand for high-sulfur fuel may increase the price for such fuel. ships in our fleet that do not have exhaust gas cleaning systems, and in specified areas even ships with exhaust gas cleaning systems, will be required to use low-sulfur fuels. low-sulfur fuels may be costly due to increased demand and scarcity if suppliers are not able to produce sufficient quantities. in addition, we could experience increases in other cruise operating costs due to market forces and economic or political instability resulting from increases or volatility in fuel expense. our hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to market conditions, including choice of hedging instruments, breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. to the extent that we use hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, such hedge contracts may limit our ability to benefit fully from lower fuel costs in the future. there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will be cost-effective or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in our financial condition could negatively affect our ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future. 27 table of contents mechanical malfunctions and repairs, delays in our shipbuilding program, maintenance and refurbishments and the consolidation of qualified shipyard facilities could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the new construction, refurbishment, repair and maintenance of our ships are complex processes and involve risks similar to those encountered in other large and sophisticated equipment construction, refurbishment and repair projects. our ships are subject to the risk of mechanical failure or accident, which we have occasionally experienced and have had to repair. for example, in the past we have had to delay or cancel cruises due to mechanical issues on our ships. there can be no assurance that we will not experience similar events in the future. if there is a mechanical failure or accident in the future, we may be unable to procure spare parts when needed or make repairs without incurring material expense or suspension of service, especially if a problem affects certain specialized maritime equipment, such as the radar, a pod propulsion unit, the electrical/power management system, the steering gear or the gyro system. in addition, availability, work stoppages, insolvency or financial problems in the shipyards' construction, refurbishment or repair of our ships, or other force majeure events that are beyond our control and the control of shipyards or subcontractors, could also delay or prevent the newbuild delivery, refurbishment and repair and maintenance of our ships. any termination or breach of contract following such an event may result in, among other things, the forfeiture of prior deposits or payments made by us, potential claims and impairment of losses. a significant delay in the delivery of a new ship, or a significant performance deficiency or mechanical failure of a new ship could also have an adverse effect on our business. the consolidation of the control of certain european cruise shipyards could result in higher prices for the construction of new ships and refurbishments and could limit the availability of qualified shipyards to construct new ships. also, the lack of qualified shipyard repair facilities could result in the inability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. these potential events and the associated losses, to the extent that they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and risks. we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including political risks, risks of increases in duties and taxes, risks relating to anti-bribery laws, as well as risks that laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies may change. additional risks include imposition of trade barriers, withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and changes in and application of foreign taxation structures, including value added taxes. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. operating internationally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we have implemented safeguards and policies to prevent violations of various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and policies and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct prohibited by our policies, but for which we nevertheless may be held responsible. if our employees or agents violate our policies, if we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions or if we fail to implement or maintain other adequate safeguards, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions or severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties. we have operations in and source passengers from the u.k. and member countries of the european union. effective as of january 31, 2020, the u.k. withdrew from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit. during a transition period (set to expire on december 31, 2020), it will remain in the single market and be subject to the european union's rules and regulations while the british government continues to negotiate the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the european union. the outcome of these negotiations is uncertain, and we do not know to what extent brexit will ultimately impact the business environment in the u.k., the rest of the european union, or other countries. the withdrawal could also adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject and disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the u.k. and the european 28 table of contents union, which could make it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results. we earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase and own assets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the u.s. dollar; most significantly a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, particularly british pound, canadian dollar, euro and australian dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against our other major currencies may adversely affect our u.s. dollar financial results and will reduce the u.s. dollar amount received upon conversion of these currencies into u.s. dollars. we have historically and may in the future enter into ship construction contracts denominated in euros or other foreign currencies. while we have entered into foreign currency derivatives to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with such contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portions of the ship construction contracts that have not been hedged. additionally, if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. unavailability of ports of call may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe that attractive port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports, including the specific port facility at which our guests will embark and disembark, is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security, safety, health and environmental concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, typhoons and earthquakes, financial limitations on port development, political instability, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and fees, local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists and sanctions programs implemented by the office of foreign assets control of the united states treasury department or other regulatory bodies. for example, we had to temporarily change certain itineraries in the caribbean due to damage some ports sustained during an active hurricane season in 2017. there can be no assurance that our ports of call will not be similarly affected in the future. additionally, in june 2019, the office of foreign assets control of the united states department of the treasury removed the authorization for group people-to-people educational travel by u.s. persons to cuba. concurrently, the united states department of commerce's bureau of industry and security removed the authorization to travel for most non-commercial aircraft and all passenger and recreational vessels, including cruise ships, on temporary sojourn in cuba. combined, these rulings effectively eliminated the ability of cruise lines to offer cruise travel to cuba. due to environmental and over-crowding concerns, some local governments have begun to take measures to limit the number of cruise ships and passengers allowed at certain destinations. for example, dubrovnik, venice and barcelona have either implemented or considered implementing such limitations on cruise ships and passengers. limitations on the availability of ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations in the past and could do so in the future. overcapacity in key markets or globally could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to expand our fleet through our newbuild program and expect to add nine additional ships to our fleet through 2027. our competitors have also announced similar expansions to their fleets. these increases in capacity in the cruise industry globally and potential overcapacity in certain key markets may cause us to lower pricing, which would reduce profitability and adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, older ships in our fleet may not be as competitive as new ships enter the market and we may not be able to sell such older ships at optimal prices. 29 table of contents our expansion into and investments in new markets may not be successful. we believe there remains significant opportunity to expand our passenger sourcing into major markets, such as europe and australia, as well as into emerging markets and to expand our itineraries in new markets, and we are in the process of such expansion efforts. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment and attention from management. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment spent to expand our business into these markets and may forgo opportunities in more lucrative markets, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that our risks are fully insured against or that any particular claim will be fully paid by our insurance. such losses, to the extent they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could affect our financial results. in addition, we have been and continue to be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity coverage for tort liability. our payment of these calls and increased premiums could result in significant expenses to us. if we, or other members of our protection and indemnity associations, were to sustain significant losses in the future, our ability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all could be materially adversely affected. for example, in the past our protection and indemnity associations have increased certain deductibles and determined not to cover certain categories of claims. moreover, irrespective of the occurrence of such events, there can still be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all. our indebtedness, and the agreements governing our indebtedness, may limit our flexibility in operating our business and a significant portion of our assets, including many of our ships, are collateral under our debt agreements. a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness, which may limit our available funds for other business functions and strategic opportunities and may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, the economy and the industry in which we operate. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, including refinancing our indebtedness, which may not be successful. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. in addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may contain, covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preference shares; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our share capital or make other restricted payments, including the ability of nclh's subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay dividends or make distributions to nclh; repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; make certain investments or acquisitions; transfer, sell or create liens on certain assets; and consolidate or merge with, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets to other companies. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. our existing debt agreements also require us, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may require us, to maintain minimum level of liquidity, as well as limit our net funded debt-to-capital ratio and maintain certain other financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. a failure to comply with the covenants contained in our debt agreements could result in an event of default under such agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse 30 table of contents effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the event of any default under our debt agreements, the holders of our indebtedness thereunder: could elect to declare all indebtedness outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, if applicable; and/or could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay such indebtedness. such actions by the holders of our indebtedness could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness, and there is no assurance that we would have sufficient current assets to repay such indebtedness in full. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of our secured indebtedness could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which includes a significant portion of our assets including many of our ships. any such action would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and damage our reputation. our business is subject to various u.s. and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances, it may not be economical to defend against such matters, and a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. as a result of any ship-related or other incidents, litigation claims, enforcement actions and regulatory actions and investigations, including, but not limited to, those arising from personal injury, loss of life, loss of or damage to personal property, business interruption losses or environmental damage to any affected coastal waters and the surrounding area, may be asserted or brought against various parties, including us and/or our cruise brands. the time and attention of our management may also be diverted in defending such claims, actions and investigations. subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may also incur costs both in defending against any claims, actions and investigations and for any judgments, fines, civil or criminal penalties if such claims, actions or investigations are adversely determined. the u.s. government announced that, effective may 2, 2019, it will no longer suspend the right of private parties to bring litigation under title iii of the cuban liberty and solidarity (libertad) act of 1996, popularly known as the helms-burton act, allowing certain individuals whose property was confiscated by the cuban government beginning in 1959 to sue anyone who &quot;traffics&quot; in the property in question in u.s. courts. claims have now been brought against us and other companies who have done business in cuba. if these suits are successful, they could result in substantial monetary damages against the company. the impact of volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to borrow additional money on terms as favorable as our current debt, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. economic downturns, including failures of financial institutions and any related liquidity crisis, can disrupt the capital and credit markets. such disruptions could cause counterparties under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees to be unable to perform their obligations or to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include failures of financial institutions to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements and to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts and other agreements. also, we may be limited in obtaining funds to pay amounts due to our counterparties under our derivative contracts and to pay amounts that may become due under other agreements. if we were to elect to replace any counterparty for their failure to perform their obligations under such instruments, we would likely incur significant costs to replace the counterparty. any failure to replace any counterparties under these circumstances may result in additional costs to us or an ineffective instrument. 31 table of contents certain of our debt agreements use libor as a reference rate for interest rate calculations. in july 2017, the u.k.'s financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. the u.s. federal reserve has begun publishing a secured overnight funding rate, which is intended to replace u.s. dollar libor. plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced. at this time, we cannot predict how markets will respond to these proposed alternative rates or the effect of any changes to libor or the discontinuation of libor. if libor is no longer available or if our lenders have increased costs due to changes in libor, we may experience potential increases in interest rates on our variable rate debt, which could adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, some of our debt agreements which use libor as a reference rate do not contain fallback reference rates. if libor is discontinued, we may incur additional costs related to contract renegotiation for such agreements. our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or the loss of key personnel or employee relations issues may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success is dependent upon our personnel and our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees in order to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. we need to hire and train a considerable number of qualified crew members to staff the ships that will be joining our fleet in the coming years. this may require significant efforts on the part of our management team, and our inability to hire a sufficient number of qualified crew members would adversely affect our business. our executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. currently, we are a party to collective bargaining agreements with certain crew members. any future amendments to such collective bargaining agreements or inability to satisfactorily renegotiate such agreements may increase our labor costs and have a negative impact on our financial condition. in addition, although our collective bargaining agreements have a no-strike provision, they may not prevent a disruption in work on our ships in the future. any such disruptions in work could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we rely on third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services, and we are exposed to risks facing such providers. in certain circumstances, we may not be able to replace such third parties or we may be forced to replace them at an increased cost to us. we rely on external third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services that are vital to our business. if these service providers suffer financial hardship or are otherwise unable to continue providing such services, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to replace such service providers in a timely manner, which may cause an interruption in our operations. to the extent that we are able to replace such service providers, we may be forced to pay an increased cost for equivalent services. both the interruption of operations and the replacement of the third-party service providers at an increased cost could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on scheduled commercial airline services for passenger and crew connections. increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services could undermine our customer base or disrupt our operations. a number of our passengers and crew depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to ports of embarkation for our cruises. increases in the price of airfare due to increases in fuel prices, fuel surcharges, changes in commercial airline services as a result of strikes, weather or other events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings could adversely affect our ability to deliver guests and crew to or from our ships and thereby increase our cruise operating expenses which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 32 table of contents a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated systems and technology. these systems and technologies must be refined, updated and replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis in order for us to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so on a timely basis or within reasonable cost parameters, or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new system or technology, such as fuel abatement technologies, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. risks related to the regulatory environment in which we operate future changes in applicable tax laws, or our inability to take advantage of favorable tax regimes, could increase the amount of taxes we must pay. we believe and have taken the position that our income that is considered to be derived from the international operation of ships as well as certain income that is considered to be incidental to such income ( shipping income ), is exempt from u.s. federal income taxes under section 883, based upon certain assumptions as to shareholdings and other information as more fully described in item 1 business taxation. the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. we believe and have taken the position that substantially all of our income derived from the international operation of ships is properly categorized as shipping income and that we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. it is possible, however, that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which nclh will satisfy complex stock ownership tests or the publicly traded test under section 883 as described in item 1 business taxation exemption of international shipping income under section 883 of the code. there are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of nclh's ordinary shares, which could cause us or our subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. finally, any changes in our operations could significantly increase our exposure to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in item 1 business taxation ), and we can give no assurances on this matter. if we or any of our subsidiaries were not to qualify for the exemption under section 883, our or such subsidiary's u.s.-source income would be subject to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in item 1 business taxation ). as of the date of this filing, we believe that nclh and its subsidiaries will satisfy the publicly traded test imposed under section 883 and therefore believe that nclh will qualify for the exemption under section 883. however, as discussed above, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause nclh to not meet the stock ownership or publicly traded tests. therefore, we can give no assurances on this matter. we refer you to item 1 business taxation. we may be subject to state, local and non-u.s. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. we may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. our state, local or non-u.s. tax treatment may not conform to the u.s. federal income tax treatment discussed above. we may be required to pay non-u.s. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property that may give rise to non-u.s. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial. the various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. these tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. for example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from u.s. federal income tax under section 883 and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the u.s. moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law, including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the u.s. u.k. income tax treaty on income derived in respect of our u.s. flagged operation. 33 table of contents the government of bermuda recently enacted the economic substance act 2018 which sets forth minimum economic substance requirements for entities established in bermuda. the company is currently analyzing these rules in anticipation of further guidance from bermuda authorities on the application of the economic substance act 2018. if the company is unable to comply with such requirements, the company may consider alternate jurisdictions or otherwise become subject to tax regimes which may be less favorable. we are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental, health and safety, labor, data privacy and protection and maritime laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue. increasingly stringent and complex international, federal, state, and local laws and regulations addressing environmental protection and health and safety of workers could affect our operations. the imo, a united nations agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution by ships, the council of the european union, individual countries, the united states, and individual states have implemented and are considering, new laws and rules to manage cruise ship operations. many aspects of the cruise industry are subject to international treaties such as solas, an international safety regulation, marpol, imo's requirements governing environmental protection, and stcw, an imo regulation governing ship manning. in the united states, the environmental protection agency and the u.s. coast guard both have regulations addressing cruise ship operations. the u.s. and various state and foreign government and regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations and policies aimed at reducing the threat of invasive species in ballast water, requiring the use of low-sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements and further restricting emissions, including those of green-house gases, and improving sewage and greywater-handling capabilities. compliance with such laws and regulations may entail significant expenses for ship modification and changes in operating procedures which could adversely impact our operations as well as our competitors' operations. the international labor organization's maritime labor convention, 2006 regulates many aspects of maritime crew labor and impacts the worldwide sourcing of new crew members. marpol regulations have established special emission control areas ( ecas ) with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions from fuel burning aboard ships. ships operating in designated ecas (which include the baltic sea, the north sea/english channel, and many of the waters within 200 nautical miles of the u.s. and canadian coasts including the hawaiian islands and waters surrounding puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands) are generally expected to meet the new sulfur oxide emissions limits through the use of low-sulfur fuels or installation of exhaust gas cleaning systems. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, areas of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. some environmental groups continue to lobby for more extensive oversight of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise industry and its environmental impact. in the past, states have implemented taxes that impact the cruise industry. it is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that our ships regularly visit may also decide to assess new taxes or fees or change existing taxes or fees specifically applicable to the cruise industry and its employees and/or guests, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises. existing and future legal and regulatory restrictions on our ability to collect and use data could also negatively affect our ability to market our business, result in increased compliance costs, and otherwise affect our business processes, all of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. 34 table of contents risks related to nclh's ordinary shares shareholders of nclh may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than shareholders of a u.s. corporation. we are a bermuda exempted company. the companies act 1981 of bermuda (the companies act ), which applies to nclh, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. taken together with the provisions of nclh's bye-laws, some of these differences may result in you having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of nclh than you would have as a shareholder of a u.s. corporation. this affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the companies act or nclh's bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. nclh does not currently pay dividends on its ordinary shares. nclh does not currently pay dividends to its shareholders and nclh's board of directors may never declare a dividend. our existing debt agreements restrict, and any of our future debt arrangements may restrict, among other things, the ability of nclh's subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay distributions to nclh and nclh's ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders. in addition, any determination to pay dividends in the future will be entirely at the discretion of nclh's board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, business opportunities, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that nclh's board of directors deems relevant. we are not legally or contractually required to pay dividends. in addition, nclh is a holding company and would depend upon its subsidiaries for their ability to pay distributions to nclh to finance any dividend or pay any other obligations of nclh. investors seeking dividends should not purchase nclh's ordinary shares. provisions in nclh's constitutional documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that nclh's shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. nclh's bye-laws contain provisions that may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that its shareholders consider to be in their best interests. as a result, these provisions may prevent nclh's shareholders from receiving a premium to the market price of nclh's shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of nclh's shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. these provisions include: the ability of nclh's board of directors to designate one or more series of preference shares and issue preference shares without shareholder approval; a classified board of directors; the sole power of a majority of nclh's board of directors to fix the number of directors; the power of nclh's board of directors to fill any vacancy on nclh's board of directors in most circumstances, including when such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; and advance notice requirements for nominating directors or introducing other business to be conducted at shareholder meetings. additionally, nclh's bye-laws contain provisions that prevent third parties from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its outstanding shares without the consent of nclh's board of directors and provide for the lapse of 35 table of contents rights, and sale, of any shares acquired in excess of that limit. the effect of these provisions may preclude third parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in nclh in transactions that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we attempt to minimize these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivatives. the financial impacts of these derivative instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the notional, term and conditions of the derivatives with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes. derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2019, we had interest rate swap and collar agreements to hedge our exposure to interest rate movements and to manage our interest expense. as of december 31, 2019, 78% of our debt was fixed and 22% was variable, which includes the effects of the interest rate swaps and collars. the notional amount of outstanding debt associated with the interest rate swaps and collars was $1.7 billion as of december 31, 2019. as of december 31, 2018, 72% of our debt was fixed and 28% was variable, which includes the effects of the interest rate swaps. the notional amount of outstanding debt associated with the interest rate swap agreements was $1.0 billion as of december 31, 2018. the change in our fixed rate percentage from december 31, 2018 to december 31, 2019 was primarily due to higher outstanding fixed rate debt and additional interest rate swaps and collars executed. based on our december 31, 2019 outstanding variable rate debt balance, and adding as variable debt the principle amount of debt associated with interest rate swap agreements that matured on january 2, 2020, a one percentage point increase in annual libor interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $20.9 million excluding the effects of capitalization of interest. foreign currency exchange rate risk as of december 31, 2019, we had foreign currency derivatives to hedge the exposure to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates related to our ship construction contracts denominated in euros. these derivatives hedge the foreign currency exchange rate risk on a portion of the payments on our ship construction contracts. the payments not hedged aggregate 3.0 billion, or $3.4 billion based on the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate as of december 31, 2019. as of december 31, 2018, the payments not hedged aggregated 2.2 billion, or $2.5 billion, based on the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate as of december 31, 2018. the change from december 31, 2018 to december 31, 2019 was due to the delivery of a ship in october 2019 and additional foreign exchange derivatives executed. we estimate that a 10% change 54 table of contents in the euro as of december 31, 2019 would result in a $0.3 billion change in the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated remaining payments. fuel price risk our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices relates to the forecasted purchases of fuel on our ships. fuel expense, as a percentage of our total cruise operating expense, was 11.2% for the year ended december 31, 2019 and 11.6% for the year ended december 31, 2018. we use fuel derivative agreements to mitigate the financial impact of fluctuations in fuel prices and as of december 31, 2019, we had hedged approximately 56%, 50% and 18% of our 2020, 2021 and 2022 projected metric tons of fuel purchases, respectively. as of december 31, 2018, we had hedged approximately 57%, 53% and 33% of our 2019, 2020 and 2021 projected metric tons of fuel purchases, respectively. the change in fuel price risk from december 31, 2018 to december 31, 2019 was due to additional fuel hedges executed. we estimate that a 10% increase in our weighted-average fuel price would increase our anticipated 2020 fuel expense by $50.0 million. this increase would be partially offset by an increase in the fair value of our fuel swap agreements of $23.0 million. fair value of our derivative contracts is derived using valuation models that utilize the income valuation approach. these valuation models take into account the contract terms such as maturity, as well as other inputs such as fuel types, fuel curves, creditworthiness of the counterparty and the company, as well as other data points.risk factors 24 risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. if any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under &ldquo;cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements.&rdquo; risks related to the acquisition of prestige significant costs have been incurred in connection with the consummation of the acquisition of prestige and are expected to be incurred in connection with the integration of prestige into our business, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs. significant costs have been incurred and will be incurred in connection with integrating the operations, products and personnel of prestige into our business, in addition to costs related directly to completing the acquisition of prestige. these costs may include costs for: &bull; employee retention, redeployment, relocation or severance; &bull; integration of information systems; &bull; combination of corporate and administrative functions and processes; and &bull; maintenance and management of our fleet. in addition, we have incurred a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining our operations with those of prestige. although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of 24 table of contents our operations with those of prestige, may offset incremental transaction and transaction-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. in addition, we incurred and assumed new indebtedness in connection with the acquisition of prestige. this debt may limit our financial and operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt, which could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. our substantial indebtedness has had, and will continue to have, material consequences for our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of prestige. the acquisition of prestige involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. the integration of our operations with those of prestige is expected to result in financial and operational benefits, including increased revenue and cost savings. there can be no assurance, however, regarding when or the extent to which we will be able to realize these increased revenue, cost savings or other benefits. integration may also be difficult, unpredictable and subject to delay because of possible company culture conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. we must integrate or, in some cases, replace, numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll, data privacy and security and regulatory compliance, many of which may be dissimilar. difficulties associated with integration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in connection with the acquisition of prestige, we assumed certain liabilities relating to prestige&rsquo;s business. in connection with the acquisition of prestige, we have assumed certain potential liabilities relating to prestige&rsquo;s business. to the extent we have not identified such liabilities or to the extent the indemnifications obtained from the other parties to the merger agreement for the acquisition of prestige are insufficient to cover known liabilities, these liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. integrating prestige&rsquo;s business into our business may divert our management&rsquo;s attention away from operations. successful integration of prestige&rsquo;s operations, products and personnel may place a significant burden on our management and other internal resources. the diversion of management&rsquo;s attention, and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a result of the acquisition of prestige we may not be able to retain key personnel or recruit additional qualified personnel, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and require us to incur substantial additional costs to recruit replacement personnel. as a result of the acquisition of prestige, our current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future roles. this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain high-quality employees. any failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to the company the adverse impact of general economic and related factors, such as fluctuating or increasing levels of unemployment, underemployment and the volatility of fuel prices, declines in the securities and real estate markets and perceptions of these conditions can decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate in north america or globally, such as the volatility of fuel prices, higher interest rates, stock and real estate market declines and/or volatility, more restrictive credit markets, higher unemployment or underemployment rates, higher taxes and changes in governmental policies could reduce the level of discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our guests. consequently, this may negatively affect demand for cruise vacations in these countries, which are a discretionary purchase. decreases in demand for cruise vacations could result in price discounting, which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. in addition, these conditions could also impact our suppliers, which could result in disruptions in our suppliers&rsquo; services and financial losses for us. conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and risks. we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including political risks, risks of increases in duties and taxes, risks relating to anti-bribery laws, as well as risks that laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies may change. because some of our expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, we are exposed to exchange rate risks. we 25 table of contents have historically and may in the future enter into ship construction contracts denominated in euros. while we have entered into foreign currency swaps and collar options to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with such contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portions of the ship construction contracts that have not been hedged. additionally, if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. additional risks include interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and changes in and application of foreign taxation structures, including value added taxes. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. operating internationally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we have implemented safeguards and policies to prevent violations of various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and policies and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct prohibited by our policies, but for which we nevertheless may be held responsible. if our employees or agents violate our policies, if we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions or if we fail to implement or maintain other adequate safeguards, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions or severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties. changes in fuel prices and/or other cruise operating costs would impact the cost of our cruise ship operations. fuel expense accounted for 16.8% of our total cruise operating expense for the year ended december 31, 2014, compared to 18.3% and 19.2% for the same periods in 2013 and 2012, respectively. future increases in the cost of fuel globally would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. in addition, we could experience increases in other cruise operating costs due to market forces and economic or political instability beyond our control. despite any fuel hedges we are currently a party to, or may enter into in the future, increases in fuel prices or other cruise operating costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to recover these increased costs through price increases charged to our guests. our efforts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. we believe there remains significant opportunity to expand our passenger sourcing into major markets, such as europe and australia, as well as into emerging markets in the asia pacific region and may undertake such expansion efforts at any time in the future. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment spent to expand our business into these markets, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments. our level of indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our financial condition, operations, prospects and flexibility. our substantial indebtedness could: &bull; limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; &bull; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; &bull; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes; &bull; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; &bull; make us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; &bull; make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, the economy or the industry in which we operate; &bull; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; &bull; restrict us from taking certain actions by means of restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness; &bull; make our credit card processors seek more restrictive terms in respect of our credit card arrangements; and 26 table of contents &bull; expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are (and may be in the future) at a variable rate of interest. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may contain, covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to, among other things: &bull; incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preference shares; &bull; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our share capital or make other restricted payments, including the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us and the ability of nclc to pay dividends or make distributions to nclh; &bull; repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; &bull; make certain investments or acquisitions; &bull; transfer or sell certain assets; &bull; create liens on certain assets; &bull; consolidate or merge with, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets to, other companies; &bull; enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; &bull; pledge the capital stock of any guarantors of our indebtedness; and &bull; designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our existing debt agreements. if any of the holders of our indebtedness accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. under our existing debt agreements, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. a failure to comply with the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements could result in an event of default under such agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the event of any default under our existing debt agreements, the holders of our indebtedness thereunder: &bull; will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us, if applicable; &bull; could elect to declare all indebtedness outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, if applicable; and/or &bull; could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay such indebtedness. such actions by the holders of our indebtedness could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of our secured indebtedness could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. if the indebtedness under our existing debt agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt. this could intensify the risks described above. we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness at any time in the future. although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things: 27 table of contents &bull; our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and &bull; our future ability to borrow under certain agreements governing our indebtedness, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in such agreements. there can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or that we will be able to borrow additional amounts under our existing debt agreements or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on numerous factors, including but not limited to the condition of the capital markets, our financial condition at such time, credit ratings and the performance of our industry in general. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. in addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. in the absence of such operating results and resources sufficient to service our debt, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. some or all of our assets may be illiquid and may have no readily ascertainable market value, however, and we may not be able to consummate such dispositions for fair market value or at all. furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. neither our sponsors nor any of their respective affiliates has any continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing. additionally, the agreements governing our indebtedness include, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may include, exceptions to certain covenants that permit us to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments and take other actions. the impact of volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to borrow additional money on terms as favorable as our current debt, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. economic downturns, including failures of financial institutions and any related liquidity crisis, can disrupt the capital and credit markets. such disruptions could cause counterparties under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees to be unable to perform their obligations or to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include failures of financial institutions to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements and to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts and other agreements. also, we may be limited in obtaining funds to pay amounts due to our counterparties under our derivative contracts and to pay amounts that may become due under other agreements. if we were to elect to replace any counterparty for their failure to perform their obligations under such instruments, we would likely incur significant costs to replace the counterparty. any failure to replace any counterparties under these circumstances may result in additional costs to us or an ineffective instrument. terrorist acts, acts of piracy, armed conflict and threats thereof and other international events impacting the security of travel could adversely affect the demand for cruises. past acts of terrorism and piracy have had an adverse effect on tourism, travel and the availability of air service and other forms of transportation. the threat or possibility of future terrorist acts, an outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict abroad or the possibility thereof, an increase in the activity of pirates operating off the western coast of africa or elsewhere, political unrest and instability, the issuance of travel advisories by national governments, and other geo-political uncertainties have had in the past and may again in the future have an adverse impact on the demand for cruises, and consequently, the pricing for cruises. decreases in demand and reduced pricing in response to such decreased demand would adversely affect our business by reducing our profitability. epidemics and viral outbreaks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. public perception about the safety of travel and adverse publicity related to passenger or crew illness, such as incidents of viral illnesses, stomach flu or other contagious diseases, may impact demand for cruises and result in cruise cancellations and employee absenteeism. if any wide-ranging health scare should occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. we rely on external distribution channels for passenger bookings, and major changes in the availability of external distribution channels could undermine our customer base. the majority of our guests book their cruises through independent travel agents, wholesalers and tour operators. in the event that these distribution channels are adversely impacted by an economic downturn, or by other factors, this could reduce the distribution channels 28 table of contents available for us to market and sell our cruises and we could be forced to increase the use of alternative distribution channels we are not accustomed to. if this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, independent travel agents, wholesalers and tour operators generally sell and market our cruises on a non-exclusive basis. although we offer commissions and other incentives to them for booking our cruises, there can be no guarantee that our competitors will not offer higher commissions and incentives in the future. travel agents may face increasing pressure from our competitors, particularly in the north american market, to sell and market our competitors&rsquo; cruises exclusively. if such exclusive arrangements were introduced, there can be no assurances that we will be able to find alternative distribution channels to ensure that our customer base would not be affected. we rely on third parties to provide hotel management services for certain of our ships and certain other services, and we are exposed to risks facing such providers. in certain circumstances, we may not be able to replace such third parties or we may be forced to replace them at an increased cost to us. we rely on external third parties to provide hotel management services for certain of our ships and certain other services that are vital to our business. if these service providers suffer financial hardship or are otherwise unable to continue providing such services, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to replace such service providers in a timely manner, which may cause an interruption in our operations. to the extent that we are able to replace such service providers, we may be forced to pay an increased cost for equivalent services. both the interruption of operations and the replacement of the third-party service providers at an increased cost could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. delays in our shipbuilding program and ship repairs, maintenance and refurbishments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the new construction, refurbishment, repair and maintenance of our cruise ships are complex processes and involve risks similar to those encountered in other large and sophisticated equipment construction, refurbishment and repair projects. our ships are subject to the risk of mechanical failure or accident, which we have occasionally experienced and have had to repair. if there is a mechanical failure or accident in the future, we may be unable to procure spare parts when needed or make repairs without incurring material expense or suspension of service, especially if a problem affects certain specialized maritime equipment, such as the radar, a pod propulsion unit, the electrical/power management system, the steering gear or the gyro system. in addition, availability, work stoppages, insolvency or financial problems in the shipyards&rsquo; construction, refurbishment or repair of our ships, or other &ldquo;force majeure&rdquo; events that are beyond our control and the control of shipyards or subcontractors, could also delay or prevent the newbuild delivery, refurbishment and repair and maintenance of our ships. any termination or breach of contract following such an event may result in, among other things, the forfeiture of prior deposits or payments made by us, potential claims and impairment of losses. a significant delay in the delivery of a new ship, or a significant performance deficiency or mechanical failure of a new ship could also have an adverse effect on our business. the consolidation of the control of certain european cruise shipyards could result in higher prices for refurbishment and repairs due to reduced competition. also, the lack of qualified shipyard repair facilities could result in the inability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. these potential events and the associated losses, to the extent that they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on scheduled commercial airline services for passenger and crew connections. increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services could undermine our customer base or disrupt our operations. a number of our passengers and crew depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to ports of embarkation for our cruises. increases in the price of airfare due to increases in fuel prices, fuel surcharges, changes in commercial airline services as a result of strikes, weather or other events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings could adversely affect our ability to deliver guests and crew to or from our cruise ships and thereby increase our cruise operating expenses which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our revenue is seasonal, owing to variations in passenger fare rates and occupancy levels at different times of the year. we may not be able to generate revenue that is sufficient to cover our expenses during certain periods of the year. the demand for our cruises is seasonal, with greatest demand for cruises generally occurring during the summer months. this seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. the seasonality of our results is increased due to ships being taken out of service for dry-docks, which we typically schedule during off-peak demand periods for such ships. accordingly, seasonality in demand and dry-dock periods could adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to cover the expenses we incur during certain periods of the year. adverse incidents involving cruise ships and our ability to obtain adequate insurance coverage may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 table of contents the operation of cruise ships carries an inherent risk of loss caused by adverse weather conditions and maritime disasters, including, but not limited to, oil spills and other environmental mishaps, fire, mechanical failure, collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action, civil unrest and insurrection in various countries and other circumstances or events. any such event may result in loss of life or property, loss of revenue or increased costs. the operation of cruise ships also involves the risk of other incidents at sea or while in port, including missing guests, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior and onboard crimes, which may bring into question passenger safety, may adversely affect future industry performance and may lead to litigation against us. although we place passenger safety as the highest priority in the design and operation of our fleet, we have experienced accidents and other incidents involving our cruise ships and there can be no assurance that similar events will not occur in the future. it is possible that we could be forced to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these factors or incur increased port-related and other costs resulting from such adverse events. any such event involving our cruise ships or other passenger cruise ships may adversely affect guests&rsquo; perceptions of safety or result in increased governmental or other regulatory oversight. an adverse judgment or settlement in respect of any of the ongoing claims against us may also lead to negative publicity about us. anything that damages our reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about passenger safety, could have an adverse impact on demand, which could lead to price discounting and a reduction in our sales and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if there is a significant accident, mechanical failure or similar problem involving a ship, we may have to place a ship in an extended dry-dock period for repairs. this could result in material lost revenue and/or expenditures. there can be no assurance that all risks are fully insured against or that any particular claim will be fully paid. such losses, to the extent they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could affect our financial results. in addition, we have been and continue to be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity coverage for tort liability. our payment of these calls and increased premiums could result in significant expenses to us. if we were to sustain significant losses in the future, our ability to obtain insurance coverage or coverage at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely affected. moreover, irrespective of the occurrence of such events, there can still be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all. breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks could impair our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the integrity and reliability of our information technology systems and other networks are crucial to our business operations. disruptions to these networks could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results and negatively affect our reputation and customer demand. in addition, certain networks are dependent on third-party technologies, systems and service providers for which there is no certainty of uninterrupted availability. among other things, actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events, information systems failures, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other cyber-attacks may cause disruptions to our information technology, telecommunications and other networks. while we have and continue to invest in business continuity, disaster recovery and data restoration plans, we cannot completely insulate ourselves from disruptions that could result in adverse effects on our operations and financial results. we carry limited business interruption insurance for certain of our shoreside operations, subject to limitations, exclusions and deductibles. we have also made significant investments in our information technology systems to optimize booking procedures, enhance the marketing power of our websites and control costs. any unauthorized use of our information systems to gain access to sensitive information, corrupt data or create general disturbances in our operations systems could impair our ability to conduct business and damage our reputation. if our security systems were breached, we could be exposed to cyber-related risks and malware, and credit card and other sensitive data could be at risk. in the event of a data security breach of our systems and/or third-party systems, we may incur costs associated with the following: breach response, notification, forensics, regulatory investigations, public relations, consultants, credit identity monitoring, credit freezes, fraud alert, credit identity restoration, credit card cancellation, credit card reissuance or replacement, regulatory fines and penalties, vendor fines and penalties, legal fees and damages. denial of service attacks may result in costs associated with, among other things, the following: response, forensics, public relations, consultants, data restoration, legal fees and settlement. in addition, data security breaches or denial of service attacks may cause business interruption, information technology disruption, disruptions as a result of regulatory investigation, digital asset loss related to corrupted or destroyed data, damage to our reputation, damages to intangible property and other intangible damages, such as loss of consumer confidence, all of which could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results. while we have and continue to invest in data and information technology security initiatives, we cannot completely insulate ourselves from the risks of data security breaches and denial of service attacks that could result in adverse effects on our operations and financial results. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated systems and technology. these systems and technologies must be refined, updated and replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis in order for us to meet our customers&rsquo; demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so on a timely basis or within reasonable cost parameters, or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train 30 table of contents our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new system or technology, such as fuel abatement technologies, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. amendments to the collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may materially adversely affect our financial results. currently, we are a party to six collective bargaining agreements. three of these agreements are in effect through 2017. of the three remaining agreements, two are scheduled to expire in 2018 and one is scheduled to expire in 2020. upon appropriate notice, these agreements may be reopened at certain three-year intervals, and we received notice from two of the parties to reopen wage/benefit negotiations in 2015. these negotiations are scheduled for a completion date of april 1, 2015. any future amendments to such collective bargaining agreements or inability to satisfactorily renegotiate such agreements may increase our labor costs and have a negative impact on our financial condition. in addition, although our collective bargaining agreements have a no-strike provision, they may not prevent a disruption in work on our ships in the future. any such disruptions in work could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. unavailability of ports of call may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe that attractive port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports, including the specific port facility at which our guests will embark and disembark, is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security, safety and environmental concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, political instability, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and fees, local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists and sanctions programs implemented by the office of foreign assets control of the united states treasury department or other regulatory bodies. any limitations on the availability of ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and damage our reputation. our business is subject to various u.s. and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances, it may not be economical to defend against such matters, and a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. as a result of any ship-related or other incidents, litigation claims, enforcement actions and regulatory actions and investigations, including, but not limited to, those arising from personal injury, loss of life, loss of or damage to personal property, business interruption losses or environmental damage to any affected coastal waters and the surrounding area, may be asserted or brought against various parties, including us and/or our cruise brands. the time and attention of our management may also be diverted in defending such claims, actions and investigations. subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may also incur costs both in defending against any claims, actions and investigations and for any judgments, fines, civil or criminal penalties if such claims, actions or investigations are adversely determined. risks related to the regulatory environment in which we operate future changes in applicable tax laws, or our inability to take advantage of favorable tax regimes, could increase the amount of taxes we must pay. we believe and have taken the position that our income that is considered to be derived from the international operation of ships as well as certain income that is considered to be incidental to such income (&ldquo;shipping income&rdquo;), is exempt from u.s. federal income taxes under section 883 of the code, based upon certain assumptions as to shareholdings and other information as more fully described in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation.&rdquo; the provisions of section 883 of the code are subject to change at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. we believe and have taken the position that substantially all of our income derived from the international operation of ships is properly categorized as shipping income and that we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. it is possible, however, that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which nclh will satisfy complex stock ownership tests or the publicly traded test under section 883 of the code as described in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash; taxation&mdash;exemption of international shipping income under section 883 of the code.&rdquo; there are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares, which could cause us or our subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. finally, any changes in our 31 table of contents operations could significantly increase our exposure to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation&rdquo;), and we can give no assurances on this matter. if we or any of our subsidiaries were not to qualify for the exemption under section 883 of the code, our or such subsidiary&rsquo;s u.s.-source income would be subject to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in &ldquo;item 1&mdash; business&mdash; taxation). as of the date of this filing, we believe that nclh and its subsidiaries will satisfy the publicly traded test imposed under section 883 and therefore believe that nclh will qualify for the exemption under section 883. however, as discussed above, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause nclh to not meet the stock ownership or publically traded tests. therefore, we can give no assurances on this matter. we refer you to &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation.&rdquo; we may be subject to state, local and non-u.s. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. we may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. our state, local or non-u.s. tax treatment may not conform to the u.s. federal income tax treatment discussed above. we may be required to pay non-u.s. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property that may give rise to non-u.s. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial. the various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. these tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. for example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from u.s. federal income tax under section 883 of the code and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the united states. moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the u.s. &ndash; u.k. income tax treaty on income derived in respect of our u.s.&ndash;flagged operation. we are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue. some environmental groups have lobbied for more extensive oversight of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise industry and its environmental impact. increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations on environmental protection and health and safety of workers could affect our operations. the u.s. environmental protection agency, the imo (a united nations agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution by ships), the council of the european union and individual states are considering, as well as implementing, new laws and rules to manage cruise ship waste. in addition, many aspects of the cruise industry are subject to governmental regulation by the u.s. coast guard as well as international treaties such as solas, an international safety regulation, marpol, an international environmental regulation, and stcw and its conventions in ship manning. international regulations regarding ballast water and security levels are currently pending. additionally, the u.s. and various state and foreign government and regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations and policies, such as requiring the use of low-sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements and further restricting emissions, including those of green-house gases. compliance with such laws and regulations may entail significant expenses for ship modification and changes in operating procedures which could adversely impact our operations as well as our competitors&rsquo; operations. in 2006, alaskan voters approved a ballot measure requiring that cruise ships meet alaska water quality standards (&ldquo;wqs&rdquo;). pursuant to the ballot measure, alaska approved stringent regulations and required a waste water discharge permit for cruise ships beginning in 2008. legislation approved in 2009 allowed the state to issue general permits that contain effluent limits or standards that are less stringent than the wqs where the ship is using economically feasible methods of pollution prevention. in 2013, the state extended the permit program, and allowed ship operators to apply for mixing zones in upcoming permits, an option that may ease compliance with certain wqs. the international labor organization&rsquo;s maritime labor convention, 2006 went into force on august 20, 2013. the convention regulates many aspects of maritime crew labor and impacts the worldwide sourcing of new crew members. marpol regulations have established special emission control areas (&ldquo;ecas&rdquo;) with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions. ships operating in designated ecas (which include the baltic sea, the north sea/english channel, and many of the waters within 200 nautical miles of the u.s. and canadian coasts including the hawaiian islands; waters surrounding puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands have been included as of january 2014) are generally expected to meet the new emissions limits through the use of low-sulfur fuels. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. by virtue of our operations in the u.s., the fmc requires us to maintain a third-party performance guarantee on our behalf in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to guests. the fmc has proposed rules that would significantly increase the amount of our required guarantees and accordingly our cost of compliance. there can be no assurance that such an increase in the amount of our guarantees, if required, would be available to us. for additional discussion of the fmc&rsquo;s proposed requirements, we refer you to &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;regulatory issues.&rdquo; in 2007, the state of alaska implemented taxes, some of which were rolled back in 2010, which have impacted the cruise industry operating in alaska. it is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that our ships regularly visit may also decide to assess new 32 table of contents taxes or fees or change existing taxes or fees specifically applicable to the cruise industry and its employees and/or guests, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises. risks related to nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares we are a &ldquo;controlled company&rdquo; within the meaning of the rules of nasdaq and, as a result, rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. on january 18, 2013, nclh listed its ordinary shares on the nasdaq global select market and genting hk, the apollo funds and the tpg viking funds, or their respective affiliates, together continue to control a majority of its ordinary shares. as a result, we are a &ldquo;controlled company&rdquo; within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of nasdaq. under the rules of nasdaq, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a &ldquo;controlled company&rdquo; and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement: &bull; that a majority of its board of directors consists of independent directors; &bull; that nclh have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee&rsquo;s purpose and responsibilities; &bull; that nclh have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee&rsquo;s purpose and responsibilities; and &bull; for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. nclh has utilized some of these exemptions. as a result, nclh does not have a majority of independent directors nor is nclh required to have any independent directors on its nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees, and nclh is not required to have an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. accordingly, its shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to a national securities exchange&rsquo;s general corporate governance requirements (without giving effect to the &ldquo;controlled company&rdquo; exemptions of nasdaq). nclh is controlled by the sponsors, who hold a significant percentage of nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares and whose interests may not be aligned with ours or that of our other security holders. the majority of nclh&rsquo;s voting ordinary shares are held by affiliates of genting hk, the apollo funds and the tpg viking funds. the shareholders&rsquo; agreement governing the relationship among those parties gives the apollo funds effective control over our affairs and policies, subject to certain limitations. genting hk and the apollo funds also control the election of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors, the appointment of management, the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other material transactions. the directors appointed by genting hk and the apollo funds have the authority, on our behalf and subject to the terms of our debt agreements and the shareholders&rsquo; agreement, to issue additional ordinary shares, implement share repurchase programs, declare dividends, pay advisory fees and make other decisions, and they may have an interest in our doing so. the interests of genting hk, the apollo funds and other funds affiliated with apollo and the tpg viking funds could conflict with our interests and the interests of our other security holders in material respects. furthermore, genting hk engages in the cruise industry and leisure, entertainment and hospitality activities and apollo and tpg are in the business of managing investment funds which make investments in companies, one or more of which has now and may from time to time hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, as well as businesses that represent major guests of our business. investment funds managed by genting hk, apollo and/or tpg may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as nclh&rsquo;s sponsors continue to control a significant amount of its outstanding voting ordinary shares, such shareholders will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. additionally, the concentration of ownership held by nclh&rsquo;s sponsors could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination. shareholders of nclh may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than as shareholders of a u.s. corporation. we are a bermuda exempted company. the companies act 1981 of bermuda (the &ldquo;companies act&rdquo;), which applies to nclh, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. taken together with the provisions of nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws, some of these differences may result in you having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of nclh than you would have as a shareholder of a u.s. corporation. this affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the companies act or nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. 33 table of contents nclh does not have current plans to pay dividends on its ordinary shares. nclh does not currently intend to pay dividends to its shareholders and nclh&rsquo;s board of directors may never declare a dividend. our existing debt agreements restrict, and any of our future debt arrangements may restrict, among other things, the ability of nclh&rsquo;s subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay distributions to nclh and nclh&rsquo;s ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders. in addition, any determination to pay dividends in the future will be entirely at the discretion of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, business opportunities, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that nclh&rsquo;s board of directors deems relevant. we are not legally or contractually required to pay dividends. in addition, nclh is a holding company and would depend upon its subsidiaries for their ability to pay distributions to nclh to finance any dividend or pay any other obligations of nclh. investors seeking dividends should not purchase nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares. provisions in nclh&rsquo;s constitutional documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that nclh&rsquo;s shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws contain provisions that may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that its shareholders consider to be in their best interests. as a result, these provisions may prevent nclh&rsquo;s shareholders from receiving a premium to the market price of nclh&rsquo;s shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of nclh&rsquo;s shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. these provisions include (subject to the shareholders&rsquo; agreement): &bull; the ability of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to designate one or more series of preference shares and issue preference shares without shareholder approval; &bull; a classified board of directors; &bull; the sole power of a majority of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to fix the number of directors; &bull; the power of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to fill any vacancy on nclh&rsquo;s board of directors in most circumstances, including when such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; and &bull; advance notice requirements for nominating directors or introducing other business to be conducted at shareholder meetings. additionally, nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws contain provisions that prevent third parties, other than the apollo funds, the tpg viking funds and genting hk, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its outstanding shares without the consent of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors and provide for the lapse of rights, and sale, of any shares acquired in excess of that limit. the effect of these provisions as well as the significant ownership of ordinary shares by our sponsors may preclude third parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in nclh in transactions that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 50 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we attempt to minimize these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivatives. the financial impacts of these derivative instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivatives with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes. derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2014, we had interest rate swap agreements to modify our exposure to interest rate movements and to manage our interest expense. as of december 31, 2014, 53% of our debt was fixed and 47% was variable, which includes the effects of the interest rate swaps. the notional amount of outstanding debt associated with the interest rate swap agreements as of december 31, 2014 was $1.3 billion. based on our december 31, 2014 outstanding variable rate debt balance, a one percentage point increase in annual libor interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $28.9 million excluding the effects of capitalization of interest. foreign currency exchange rate risk as of december 31, 2014, we had foreign currency derivatives to hedge the exposure to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates related to our ship construction contracts denominated in euros. these derivatives hedge the foreign currency exchange rate risk on a portion of the final payments on our ship construction contracts. the payments not hedged aggregate &euro;2.6 billion, or $3.1 billion based on the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate as of december 31, 2014. we estimate that a 10% change in the euro as of december 31, 2014 would result in a $316.3 million change in the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated remaining payments. fuel price risk our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices relates to the forecasted purchases of fuel on our ships. fuel expense, as a percentage of our total cruise operating expense, was 16.8%, 18.3% and 19.2% for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. we use fuel derivative agreements to mitigate the financial impact of fluctuations in fuel prices and as of december 31, 2014, we had hedged approximately 68%, 55%, 39% and 8% of our 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 projected metric tons of fuel purchases, respectively. we estimate that a 10% increase in our weighted-average fuel price would increase our anticipated 2015 fuel expense by $22.8 million. this increase would be partially offset by an increase in the fair value of our fuel swap agreements of $13.0 million. fair value of our derivative contracts is derived using valuation models that utilize the income valuation approach. these valuation models take into account the contract terms such as maturity, as well as other inputs such as fuel types, fuel curves, creditworthiness of the counterparty and the company, as well as other data points.risk factors 20 risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. if any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under &ldquo;cautionary statement concerning forward looking statements.&rdquo; risks related to the company the adverse impact of general economic and related factors, such as fluctuating or increasing levels of unemployment, underemployment and the volatility of fuel prices, declines in the securities and real estate markets and perceptions of these conditions can decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate in north america or globally, such as the volatility of fuel prices, higher interest rates, stock and real estate market declines and/or volatility, more restrictive credit markets, higher unemployment or underemployment rates, higher taxes and changes in governmental policies could reduce the level of discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our guests. consequently, this may negatively affect demand for cruise vacations in these countries, which are a discretionary purchase. decreases in demand for cruise vacations could result in price discounting, which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. in addition, these conditions could also impact our suppliers, which could result in disruptions in our suppliers&rsquo; services and financial losses for us. conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and risks. we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including political risks, risks of increases in duties and taxes, risks relating to anti-bribery laws, as well as risks that laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies may change. additional risks include imposition of trade barriers, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and changes in and application of foreign taxation structures, including value added taxes. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. operating internationally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we have implemented safeguards and policies to prevent violations of various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and policies and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct prohibited by our policies, but for which we nevertheless may be held responsible. if our employees or agents violate our policies, if we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions or if we fail to implement or maintain other adequate safeguards, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions or severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties. our efforts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. we believe there remains significant opportunity to expand our passenger sourcing into major markets, such as europe and australia, as well as into emerging markets in the asia pacific region and we are in the process of such expansion efforts. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment spent to expand our business into these markets, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. terrorist acts, acts of piracy, armed conflict and threats thereof and other international events impacting the security of travel could adversely affect the demand for cruises. the threat or possibility of future terrorist acts, an outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict abroad or the possibility thereof, an increase in the activity of pirates operating off the western coast of africa or elsewhere, political unrest and instability, the issuance of travel advisories by national governments, and other geo-political uncertainties have had in the past and may again in the future have an adverse impact on the demand for cruises, and consequently, the pricing for cruises. decreases in demand and reduced pricing in response to such decreased demand would adversely affect our business by reducing our profitability. 20 table of contents breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks could impair our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the integrity and reliability of our information technology systems and other networks are crucial to our business operations. disruptions to these networks could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results and negatively affect our reputation and customer demand. in addition, certain networks are dependent on third-party technologies, systems and service providers for which there is no certainty of uninterrupted availability. among other things, actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events, information systems failures, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other cyber-attacks may cause disruptions to our information technology, telecommunications and other networks. while we have and continue to invest in business continuity, disaster recovery and data restoration plans, we cannot completely insulate ourselves from disruptions that could result in adverse effects on our operations and financial results. we carry limited business interruption insurance for certain shoreside operations, subject to limitations, exclusions and deductibles. we have also made significant investments in our information technology systems to optimize booking procedures, enhance the marketing power of our websites and control costs. any unauthorized use of our information systems to gain access to sensitive information, corrupt data or create general disturbances in our operations systems could impair our ability to conduct business and damage our reputation. if our security systems were breached, we could be exposed to cyber-related risks and malware, and credit card and other sensitive data could be at risk. in the event of a data security breach of our systems and/or third-party systems, we may incur costs associated with the following: breach response, notification, forensics, regulatory investigations, public relations, consultants, credit identity monitoring, credit freezes, fraud alert, credit identity restoration, credit card cancellation, credit card reissuance or replacement, regulatory fines and penalties, vendor fines and penalties, legal fees and damages. denial of service attacks may result in costs associated with, among other things, the following: response, forensics, public relations, consultants, data restoration, legal fees and settlement. in addition, data security breaches or denial of service attacks may cause business interruption, information technology disruption, disruptions as a result of regulatory investigation, digital asset loss related to corrupted or destroyed data, damage to our reputation, damages to intangible property and other intangible damages, such as loss of consumer confidence, all of which could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results. while we have and continue to invest in data and information technology security initiatives, we cannot completely insulate ourselves from the risks of data security breaches and denial of service attacks that could result in adverse effects on our operations and financial results. epidemics and viral outbreaks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. public perception about the safety of travel and adverse publicity related to passenger or crew illness, such as incidents of viral illnesses, stomach flu or other contagious diseases, may impact demand for cruises and result in cruise cancellations and employee absenteeism. if any wide-ranging health scare should occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. adverse incidents involving cruise ships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships carries an inherent risk of loss caused by adverse weather conditions and maritime disasters, including, but not limited to, oil spills and other environmental mishaps, fire, mechanical failure, collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action, civil unrest and insurrection in various countries and other circumstances or events. any such event may result in loss of life or property, loss of revenue or increased costs. the operation of cruise ships also involves the risk of other incidents at sea or while in port, including missing guests, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior and onboard crimes, which may bring into question passenger safety, may adversely affect future industry performance and may lead to litigation against us. although we place passenger safety as the highest priority in the design and operation of our fleet, we have experienced accidents and other incidents involving our cruise ships and there can be no assurance that similar events will not occur in the future. it is possible that we could be forced to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these factors or incur increased port-related and other costs resulting from such adverse events. any such event involving our cruise ships or other passenger cruise ships may adversely affect guests&rsquo; perceptions of safety or result in increased governmental or other regulatory oversight. an adverse judgment or settlement in respect of any of the ongoing claims against us may also lead to negative publicity about us. anything that damages our reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about passenger safety, could have an adverse impact on demand, which could lead to price discounting and a reduction in our sales and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if there is a significant accident, mechanical failure or similar problem involving a ship, we may have to place a ship in an extended dry-dock period for repairs. this could result in material lost revenue and/or expenditures. changes in fuel prices and/or other cruise operating costs would impact the cost of our cruise ship operations. fuel expense accounted for 13.5% of our total cruise operating expense for the year ended december 31, 2015, compared to 16.8% and 18.3% for the same periods in 2014 and 2013, respectively. future increases in the cost of fuel globally would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. in addition, we could experience increases in other cruise operating costs due to market forces and economic or political instability beyond our control. despite any fuel hedges we are currently a party to, or may enter into in the future, increases in fuel prices or other cruise operating costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to recover these increased costs through price increases charged to our guests. 21 table of contents our hedging strategies may not be cost-effective or adequately protect us from increased costs related to changes in fuel prices. in order to manage risks associated with the variable market prices of fuel, we routinely hedge a portion of our future fuel requirements. however, our hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to market conditions, including choice of hedging instruments, breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. to the extent that we use hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, such hedge contracts may limit our ability to benefit fully from lower fuel costs in the future. there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will be cost-effective, will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in our financial condition could negatively affect our ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future. our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that all of our risks are fully insured against or that any particular claim will be fully paid by our insurance. such losses, to the extent they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could affect our financial results. in addition, we have been and continue to be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity coverage for tort liability. our payment of these calls and increased premiums could result in significant expenses to us. if we were to sustain significant losses in the future, our ability to obtain insurance coverage at all or at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely affected. moreover, irrespective of the occurrence of such events, there can still be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments. our level of indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, prospects and flexibility. our substantial indebtedness could: &bull; limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; &bull; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; &bull; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes; &bull; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; &bull; make us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; &bull; make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, the economy or the industry in which we operate; &bull; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; &bull; restrict us from taking certain actions by means of restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness; &bull; make our credit card processors seek more restrictive terms in respect of our credit card arrangements; and &bull; expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain borrowings are (and may be in the future) at a variable rate of interest. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may contain, covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to, among other things: &bull; incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preference shares; &bull; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our share capital or make other restricted payments, including the ability of nclh&rsquo;s subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay dividends or make distributions to nclh; &bull; repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; &bull; make certain investments or acquisitions; &bull; transfer or sell certain assets; 22 table of contents &bull; create liens on certain assets; &bull; consolidate or merge with, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets to, other companies; &bull; enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; &bull; pledge the capital stock of any guarantors of our indebtedness; and &bull; designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our existing debt agreements. if any of the holders of our indebtedness accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. under our existing debt agreements, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. a failure to comply with the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements could result in an event of default under such agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the event of any default under our existing debt agreements, the holders of our indebtedness thereunder: &bull; will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us, if applicable; &bull; could elect to declare all indebtedness outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, if applicable; and/or &bull; could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay such indebtedness. such actions by the holders of our indebtedness could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of our secured indebtedness could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. if the indebtedness under our existing debt agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt. this could intensify certain of the risks described above. we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness at any time in the future. although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things: &bull; our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and &bull; our future ability to borrow under certain agreements governing our indebtedness, the availability of which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in such agreements. there can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or that we will be able to borrow additional amounts under our existing debt agreements or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on numerous factors, including but not limited to the condition of the capital markets, our financial condition at such time, credit ratings and the performance of our industry in general. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. in addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. in the absence of such operating results and resources sufficient to service our debt, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. some or all of our assets may be illiquid and may have no readily ascertainable market value, however, and we may not be able to consummate such dispositions for fair market value or at all. furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. 23 table of contents additionally, the agreements governing our indebtedness include, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may include, exceptions to certain covenants that permit us to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments and take other actions. the impact of volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to borrow additional money on terms as favorable as our current debt, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. economic downturns, including failures of financial institutions and any related liquidity crisis, can disrupt the capital and credit markets. such disruptions could cause counterparties under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees to be unable to perform their obligations or to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include failures of financial institutions to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements and to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts and other agreements. also, we may be limited in obtaining funds to pay amounts due to our counterparties under our derivative contracts and to pay amounts that may become due under other agreements. if we were to elect to replace any counterparty for their failure to perform their obligations under such instruments, we would likely incur significant costs to replace the counterparty. any failure to replace any counterparties under these circumstances may result in additional costs to us or an ineffective instrument. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results. we earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase and own assets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the u.s. dollar; most significantly a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, particularly british pound, canadian dollar, euro and australian dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against our other major currencies may adversely affect our u.s. dollar financial results and will reduce the u.s. dollar amount received upon conversion of these currencies into u.s. dollars. we have historically and may in the future enter into ship construction contracts denominated in euros or other foreign currencies. while we have entered into foreign currency derivatives to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with such contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portions of the ship construction contracts that have not been hedged. additionally, if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or the loss of key personnel may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success is dependent upon our personnel and our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees in order to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. we need to hire and train a considerable number of qualified crew members to staff the ships that will be joining our fleet in the coming years. this may require significant efforts on the part of our management team, and our inability to hire a sufficient number of qualified crew members would adversely affect our business. our executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. we rely on external distribution channels for passenger bookings, and major changes in the availability of external distribution channels could undermine our customer base. the majority of our guests book their cruises through independent travel agents, wholesalers and tour operators. in the event that these distribution channels are adversely impacted by an economic downturn, or by other factors, this could reduce the distribution channels available for us to market and sell our cruises and we could be forced to increase the use of alternative distribution channels we are not accustomed to. if this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, independent travel agents, wholesalers and tour operators generally sell and market our cruises on a non-exclusive basis. although we offer commissions and other incentives to them for booking our cruises, there can be no guarantee that our competitors will not offer higher commissions and incentives in the future. travel agents may face increasing pressure from our competitors, particularly in the north american market, to sell and market our competitors&rsquo; cruises exclusively. if such exclusive arrangements were introduced, there can be no assurances that we will be able to find alternative distribution channels to ensure that our customer base would not be affected. we rely on third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services, and we are exposed to risks facing such providers. in certain circumstances, we may not be able to replace such third parties or we may be forced to replace them at an increased cost to us. 24 table of contents we rely on external third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services that are vital to our business. if these service providers suffer financial hardship or are otherwise unable to continue providing such services, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to replace such service providers in a timely manner, which may cause an interruption in our operations. to the extent that we are able to replace such service providers, we may be forced to pay an increased cost for equivalent services. both the interruption of operations and the replacement of the third-party service providers at an increased cost could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. delays in our shipbuilding program and ship repairs, maintenance and refurbishments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the new construction, refurbishment, repair and maintenance of our cruise ships are complex processes and involve risks similar to those encountered in other large and sophisticated equipment construction, refurbishment and repair projects. our ships are subject to the risk of mechanical failure or accident, which we have occasionally experienced and have had to repair. if there is a mechanical failure or accident in the future, we may be unable to procure spare parts when needed or make repairs without incurring material expense or suspension of service, especially if a problem affects certain specialized maritime equipment, such as the radar, a pod propulsion unit, the electrical/power management system, the steering gear or the gyro system. in addition, availability, work stoppages, insolvency or financial problems in the shipyards&rsquo; construction, refurbishment or repair of our ships, or other &ldquo;force majeure&rdquo; events that are beyond our control and the control of shipyards or subcontractors, could also delay or prevent the newbuild delivery, refurbishment and repair and maintenance of our ships. any termination or breach of contract following such an event may result in, among other things, the forfeiture of prior deposits or payments made by us, potential claims and impairment of losses. a significant delay in the delivery of a new ship, or a significant performance deficiency or mechanical failure of a new ship could also have an adverse effect on our business. the consolidation of the control of certain european cruise shipyards could result in higher prices for refurbishment and repairs due to reduced competition. also, the lack of qualified shipyard repair facilities could result in the inability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. these potential events and the associated losses, to the extent that they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on scheduled commercial airline services for passenger and crew connections. increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services could undermine our customer base or disrupt our operations. a number of our passengers and crew depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to ports of embarkation for our cruises. increases in the price of airfare due to increases in fuel prices, fuel surcharges, changes in commercial airline services as a result of strikes, weather or other events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings could adversely affect our ability to deliver guests and crew to or from our cruise ships and thereby increase our cruise operating expenses which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our revenue is seasonal, owing to variations in passenger fare rates and occupancy levels at different times of the year. we may not be able to generate revenue that is sufficient to cover our expenses during certain periods of the year. the demand for our cruises is seasonal, with the greatest demand for cruises generally occurring during the northern hemisphere&rsquo;s summer months. this seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. the seasonality of our results is increased due to ships being taken out of service for dry-docks, which we typically schedule during off-peak demand periods for such ships. accordingly, seasonality in demand and dry-dock periods could adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to cover the expenses we incur during certain periods of the year. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated systems and technology. these systems and technologies must be refined, updated and replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis in order for us to meet our customers&rsquo; demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so on a timely basis or within reasonable cost parameters, or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new system or technology, such as fuel abatement technologies, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. amendments to the collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may materially adversely affect our financial results. currently, we are a party to eight collective bargaining agreements. two of these agreements are in effect through 2016 and three through 2017. the remaining three are set to expire in march and june of 2018. any future amendments to such collective bargaining agreements or inability to satisfactorily renegotiate such agreements may increase our labor costs and have a negative impact on our financial condition. in addition, although our collective bargaining agreements have a no-strike provision, they may not prevent a disruption in work on our ships in the future. any such disruptions in work could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 25 table of contents unavailability of ports of call may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe that attractive port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports, including the specific port facility at which our guests will embark and disembark, is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security, safety and environmental concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, political instability, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and fees, local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists and sanctions programs implemented by the office of foreign assets control of the united states treasury department or other regulatory bodies. any limitations on the availability of ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and damage our reputation. our business is subject to various u.s. and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances, it may not be economical to defend against such matters, and a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. as a result of any ship-related or other incidents, litigation claims, enforcement actions and regulatory actions and investigations, including, but not limited to, those arising from personal injury, loss of life, loss of or damage to personal property, business interruption losses or environmental damage to any affected coastal waters and the surrounding area, may be asserted or brought against various parties, including us and/or our cruise brands. the time and attention of our management may also be diverted in defending such claims, actions and investigations. subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may also incur costs both in defending against any claims, actions and investigations and for any judgments, fines, civil or criminal penalties if such claims, actions or investigations are adversely determined. risks related to the regulatory environment in which we operate future changes in applicable tax laws, or our inability to take advantage of favorable tax regimes, could increase the amount of taxes we must pay. we believe and have taken the position that our income that is considered to be derived from the international operation of ships as well as certain income that is considered to be incidental to such income (&ldquo;shipping income&rdquo;), is exempt from u.s. federal income taxes under section 883, based upon certain assumptions as to shareholdings and other information as more fully described in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation.&rdquo; the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. we believe and have taken the position that substantially all of our income derived from the international operation of ships is properly categorized as shipping income and that we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. it is possible, however, that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which nclh will satisfy complex stock ownership tests or the publicly traded test under section 883 as described in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash; taxation&mdash;exemption of international shipping income under section 883 of the code.&rdquo; there are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares, which could cause us or our subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. finally, any changes in our operations could significantly increase our exposure to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation&rdquo;), and we can give no assurances on this matter. if we or any of our subsidiaries were not to qualify for the exemption under section 883, our or such subsidiary&rsquo;s u.s.-source income would be subject to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in &ldquo;item 1&mdash; business&mdash; taxation). as of the date of this filing, we believe that nclh and its subsidiaries will satisfy the publicly traded test imposed under section 883 and therefore believe that nclh will qualify for the exemption under section 883. however, as discussed above, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause nclh to not meet the stock ownership or publicly traded tests. therefore, we can give no assurances on this matter. we refer you to &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation.&rdquo; we may be subject to state, local and non-u.s. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. we may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. our state, local or non-u.s. tax treatment may not conform to the u.s. federal income tax treatment discussed above. we may be required to pay non-u.s. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property that may give rise to non-u.s. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial. the various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. these tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. for example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from u.s. federal income tax under section 883 and subject all or a portion of our 26 table of contents shipping income to taxation in the u.s. moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the u.s. &ndash; u.k. income tax treaty on income derived in respect of our u.s.&ndash;flagged operation. we are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue. some environmental groups have lobbied for more extensive oversight of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise industry and its environmental impact. increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations on environmental protection and health and safety of workers could affect our operations. the u.s. environmental protection agency, the imo (a united nations agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution by ships), the council of the european union and individual countries and u.s. states are considering, as well as implementing, new laws and rules to manage cruise ship operations and waste. in addition, many aspects of the cruise industry are subject to governmental regulation by the u.s. coast guard as well as international treaties such as solas, an international safety regulation, marpol, an international environmental regulation, and stcw and its conventions in ship manning. international regulations regarding ballast water and security levels are currently pending. additionally, the u.s. and various state and foreign government and regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations and policies, such as requiring the use of low-sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements and further restricting emissions, including those of green-house gases. compliance with such laws and regulations may entail significant expenses for ship modification and changes in operating procedures which could adversely impact our operations as well as our competitors&rsquo; operations. in 2006, alaskan voters approved a ballot measure requiring that cruise ships meet alaska water quality standards (&ldquo;wqs&rdquo;). pursuant to the ballot measure, alaska approved stringent regulations and required a waste water discharge permit for cruise ships beginning in 2008. legislation approved in 2009 allowed the state to issue general permits that contain effluent limits or standards that are less stringent than the wqs where the ship is using economically feasible methods of pollution prevention. in 2013, the state extended the permit program, and allowed ship operators to apply for mixing zones in upcoming permits, an option that may ease compliance with certain wqs. the international labor organization&rsquo;s maritime labor convention, 2006 went into force on august 20, 2013. the convention regulates many aspects of maritime crew labor and impacts the worldwide sourcing of new crew members. marpol regulations have established special ecas with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions. ships operating in designated ecas (which include the baltic sea, the north sea/english channel, and many of the waters within 200 nautical miles of the u.s. and canadian coasts including the hawaiian islands; waters surrounding puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands have been included as of january 2014) are generally expected to meet the new sulfur oxide emissions limits through the use of low-sulfur fuels. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. by virtue of our operations in the u.s., the fmc requires us to maintain a third-party performance guarantee on our behalf in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to guests. the fmc has proposed rules that would significantly increase the amount of our required guarantees and accordingly our cost of compliance. there can be no assurance that such an increase in the amount of our guarantees, if required, would be available to us. for additional discussion of the fmc&rsquo;s proposed requirements, we refer you to &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;regulatory issues.&rdquo; in 2007, the state of alaska implemented taxes, some of which were rolled back in 2010, which have impacted the cruise industry operating in alaska. it is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that our ships regularly visit may also decide to assess new taxes or fees or change existing taxes or fees specifically applicable to the cruise industry and its employees and/or guests, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises. risks related to nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares although nclh is no longer a &ldquo;controlled company&rdquo; within the meaning of the rules of nasdaq since the completion of the secondary equity offering in may 2015, during a one-year transition period, nclh may continue to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to shareholders of companies that are subject to those corporate governance requirements. prior to the secondary equity offering in may 2015, the sponsors controlled a majority of nclh&rsquo;s voting ordinary shares and, as a result, nclh was a &ldquo;controlled company&rdquo; under nasdaq rules and elected not to comply with certain nasdaq corporate governance requirements. following the secondary equity offering in may 2015, the sponsors no longer control more than 50% of nclh&rsquo;s voting ordinary shares and, consequently, nclh is no longer considered a &ldquo;controlled company.&rdquo; as a result, nclh is subject to additional governance requirements under nasdaq rules, including the requirements to have: &bull; a majority of independent directors on nclh&rsquo;s board of directors; &bull; a nominating and governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee&rsquo;s purpose and responsibilities; and 27 table of contents &bull; a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee&rsquo;s purpose and responsibilities. the nasdaq rules provide for phase-in periods for these requirements, but we must be fully compliant with the requirements within one year of the date on which we ceased to be a &ldquo;controlled company.&rdquo; currently, nclh does not have a majority of independent directors on its board of directors and only two of the three members of its nominating and governance committee and its compensation committee are independent. during this transition period, nclh&rsquo;s shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the nasdaq corporate governance requirements. in addition, nclh may not be able to attract and retain the number of independent directors needed to comply with nasdaq rules during the transition period. shareholders of nclh may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than as shareholders of a u.s. corporation. we are a bermuda exempted company. the companies act 1981 of bermuda (the &ldquo;companies act&rdquo;), which applies to nclh, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. taken together with the provisions of nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws, some of these differences may result in you having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of nclh than you would have as a shareholder of a u.s. corporation. this affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the companies act or nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. nclh does not have current plans to pay dividends on its ordinary shares. nclh does not currently intend to pay dividends to its shareholders and nclh&rsquo;s board of directors may never declare a dividend. our existing debt agreements restrict, and any of our future debt arrangements may restrict, among other things, the ability of nclh&rsquo;s subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay distributions to nclh and nclh&rsquo;s ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders. in addition, any determination to pay dividends in the future will be entirely at the discretion of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, business opportunities, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that nclh&rsquo;s board of directors deems relevant. we are not legally or contractually required to pay dividends. in addition, nclh is a holding company and would depend upon its subsidiaries for their ability to pay distributions to nclh to finance any dividend or pay any other obligations of nclh. investors seeking dividends should not purchase nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares. provisions in nclh&rsquo;s constitutional documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that nclh&rsquo;s shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws contain provisions that may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that its shareholders consider to be in their best interests. as a result, these provisions may prevent nclh&rsquo;s shareholders from receiving a premium to the market price of nclh&rsquo;s shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of nclh&rsquo;s shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. these provisions include (subject to the shareholders&rsquo; agreement): &bull; the ability of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to designate one or more series of preference shares and issue preference shares without shareholder approval; &bull; a classified board of directors; &bull; the sole power of a majority of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to fix the number of directors; &bull; the power of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to fill any vacancy on nclh&rsquo;s board of directors in most circumstances, including when such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; and &bull; advance notice requirements for nominating directors or introducing other business to be conducted at shareholder meetings. additionally, nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws contain provisions that prevent third parties, other than the apollo holders, the tpg viking funds and genting hk, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its outstanding shares without the consent of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors and provide for the lapse of rights, and sale, of any shares acquired in excess of that limit. the effect of these provisions as well as the significant ownership of ordinary shares by our sponsors may preclude third parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in nclh in transactions that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 43 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we attempt to minimize these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivatives. the financial impacts of these derivative instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivatives with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes. derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2015, we had interest rate swap agreements to hedge our exposure to interest rate movements and to manage our interest expense. as of december 31, 2015, 56% of our debt was fixed and 44% was variable, which includes the effects of the interest rate swaps. the notional amount of outstanding debt associated with the interest rate swap agreements as of december 31, 2015 was $715.9 million. based on our december 31, 2015 outstanding variable rate debt balance, a one percentage point increase in annual libor interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $28.2 million excluding the effects of capitalization of interest. foreign currency exchange rate risk as of december 31, 2015, we had foreign currency derivatives to hedge the exposure to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates related to our ship construction contracts denominated in euros. these derivatives hedge the foreign currency exchange rate risk on a portion of the payments on our ship construction contracts. the payments not hedged aggregate &euro;1.3 billion, or $1.4 billion based on the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate as of december 31, 2015. we estimate that a 10% change in the euro as of december 31, 2015 would result in a $146.1 million change in the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated remaining payments. fuel price risk our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices relates to the forecasted purchases of fuel on our ships. fuel expense, as a percentage of our total cruise operating expense, was 13.5%, 16.8% and 18.3% for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. we use fuel derivative agreements to mitigate the financial impact of fluctuations in fuel prices and as of december 31, 2015, we had hedged approximately 60%, 56%, 49% and 32% of our 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 projected metric tons of fuel purchases, respectively. we estimate that a 10% increase in our weighted-average fuel price would increase our anticipated 2016 fuel expense by $21.9 million. this increase would be partially offset by an increase in the fair value of our fuel swap agreements of $7.0 million. fair value of our derivative contracts is derived using valuation models that utilize the income valuation approach. these valuation models take into account the contract terms such as maturity, as well as other inputs such as fuel types, fuel curves, creditworthiness of the counterparty and the company, as well as other data points.risk factors 21 risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. if any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this annual report, you should also carefully review the cautionary statement referred to under &ldquo;cautionary statement concerning forward&ndash;looking statements.&rdquo; risks related to the company the adverse impact of general economic and related factors, such as fluctuating or increasing levels of unemployment, underemployment and the volatility of fuel prices, declines in the securities and real estate markets and perceptions of these conditions can decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate in north america or globally, such as the volatility of fuel prices, higher interest rates, stock and real estate market declines and/or volatility, more restrictive credit markets, higher unemployment or underemployment rates, higher taxes and changes in governmental policies could reduce the level of discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our guests. consequently, this may negatively affect demand for cruise vacations in these countries, which are a discretionary purchase. decreases in demand for cruise vacations could result in price discounting, which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business. in addition, these conditions could also impact our suppliers, which could result in disruptions in our suppliers&rsquo; services and financial losses for us. terrorist acts, armed conflict and threats thereof, acts of piracy, and other international events impacting the security of travel could adversely affect the demand for cruises. the threat or possibility of future terrorist acts, an outbreak of hostilities or armed conflict abroad or the possibility or fear of such events, political unrest and instability, the issuance of travel advisories or elevated national threat warnings by national governments, 21 table of contents an increase in the activity of pirates, and other geo-political uncertainties have had in the past and may again in the future have an adverse impact on the demand for cruises, and consequently, the pricing for cruises. decreases in demand and reduced pricing in response to such decreased demand would adversely affect our business by reducing our profitability. conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and risks. we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including political risks, risks of increases in duties and taxes, risks relating to anti-bribery laws, as well as risks that laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies may change. additional risks include imposition of trade barriers, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries and changes in and application of foreign taxation structures, including value added taxes. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. operating internationally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we have implemented safeguards and policies to prevent violations of various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and policies and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct prohibited by our policies, but for which we nevertheless may be held responsible. if our employees or agents violate our policies, if we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions or if we fail to implement or maintain other adequate safeguards, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions or severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties. we have operations in and source passengers from the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. on june 23, 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union. the proposed withdrawal has resulted in increased volatility in the global financial markets and caused severe volatility in global currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, such as the euro, in which we do business. the proposed withdrawal could potentially adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union. further, uncertainty around these issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom and the other economies in which we operate making it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our expansion into and investments in new markets may not be successful. we believe there remains significant opportunity to expand our passenger sourcing into major markets, such as europe and australia, as well as into emerging markets in the asia pacific region and to expand our itineraries into new markets, such as cuba, and we are in the process of such expansion efforts. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment and attention from management. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment spent to expand our business into these markets and may forgo opportunities in more lucrative markets, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. breaches in data security or other disturbances to our information technology and other networks could impair our operations and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the integrity and reliability of our information technology systems and other networks are crucial to our business operations. disruptions to these networks could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results and negatively affect our reputation and customer demand. in addition, certain networks are dependent on third-party technologies, systems and service providers for which there is no certainty of uninterrupted availability. among other things, actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events, information systems failures, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other cyber-attacks may cause disruptions to our information technology, telecommunications and other networks. while we have and continue to invest in business continuity, disaster recovery, data restoration plans and data and information technology security, we cannot completely insulate ourselves from disruptions that could result in adverse effects on our operations and financial results. we carry limited business interruption insurance for certain shoreside operations, subject to limitations, exclusions and deductibles. we have also made significant investments in our information technology systems to optimize booking procedures, enhance the marketing power of our websites and control costs. any unauthorized use of our information systems to gain access to sensitive information, corrupt data or create general disturbances in our operations systems could impair our ability to conduct business and damage our reputation. if our security systems were breached, we could be exposed to cyber-related risks and malware, and credit card and other sensitive data could be at risk. for example, in the processing of our guest transactions and as part of our ordinary business operations, we and certain of our third-party service providers collect, process, transmit and store a large volume of 22 table of contents personally identifiable information, including email addresses and home addresses and financial data such as credit card information. the security of the systems and network where we and our service providers store this data is a critical element of our business, and these systems and our network may be vulnerable to computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. we cannot assure you that the precautions we have taken to avoid an unauthorized incursion of our information systems are either adequate or implemented properly to prevent a data breach and its adverse financial and reputational consequences to our business. we are also subject to laws relating to privacy of personal data. the compromise of our information systems resulting in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to the personally identifiable information of our guests, prospective guests or employees could result in governmental investigation, civil liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, any or all of which could disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our business. additionally, any material failure by us or our service providers to maintain compliance with the payment card industry security requirements or to rectify a data security issue may result in fines and restrictions on our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment. in the event of a data security breach of our systems and/or third-party systems, we may incur costs associated with the following: breach response, notification, forensics, regulatory investigations, public relations, consultants, credit identity monitoring, credit freezes, fraud alert, credit identity restoration, credit card cancellation, credit card reissuance or replacement, regulatory fines and penalties, vendor fines and penalties, legal fees and damages. denial of service attacks may result in costs associated with, among other things, the following: response, forensics, public relations, consultants, data restoration, legal fees and settlement. in addition, data security breaches or denial of service attacks may cause business interruption, information technology disruption, disruptions as a result of regulatory investigation, digital asset loss related to corrupted or destroyed data, damage to our reputation, damages to intangible property and other intangible damages, such as loss of consumer confidence, all of which could impair our operations and have an adverse impact on our financial results. epidemics and viral outbreaks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. public perception about the safety of travel and adverse publicity related to passenger or crew illness, such as incidents of viral illnesses, stomach flu or other contagious diseases, may impact demand for cruises and result in cruise cancellations and employee absenteeism. if any wide-ranging health scare should occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. adverse incidents involving cruise ships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships carries an inherent risk of loss caused by adverse weather conditions and maritime disasters, including, but not limited to, oil spills and other environmental mishaps, fire, mechanical failure, collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action, civil unrest and insurrection in various countries and other circumstances or events. any such event may result in loss of life or property, loss of revenue or increased costs. the operation of cruise ships also involves the risk of other incidents at sea or while in port, including missing guests, inappropriate crew or passenger behavior and onboard crimes, which may bring into question passenger safety, may adversely affect future industry performance and may lead to litigation against us. although we place passenger safety as the highest priority in the design and operation of our fleet, we have experienced accidents and other incidents involving our cruise ships and there can be no assurance that similar events will not occur in the future. it is possible that we could be forced to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these factors or incur increased port-related and other costs resulting from such adverse events. any such event involving our cruise ships or other passenger cruise ships may adversely affect guests&rsquo; perceptions of safety or result in increased governmental or other regulatory oversight. an adverse judgment or settlement in respect of any of the ongoing claims against us may also lead to negative publicity about us. anything that damages our reputation (whether or not justified), including adverse publicity about passenger safety, could have an adverse impact on demand, which could lead to price discounting and a reduction in our sales and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if there is a significant accident, mechanical failure or similar problem involving a ship, we may have to place a ship in an extended dry-dock period for repairs. this could result in material lost revenue and/or expenditures. changes in fuel prices and/or other cruise operating costs would impact the cost of our cruise ship operations. fuel expense is a significant cost for our company. future increases in the cost of fuel globally or regulatory requirements which require us to use more expensive types of fuel would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations. in addition, we could experience increases in other cruise operating costs due to market forces and economic or political instability beyond our control. despite any fuel hedges we are currently a party to, or may enter into in the future, increases in fuel prices or other cruise operating costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to recover these increased costs through price increases charged to our guests. an impairment of our tradenames or goodwill could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we evaluate tradenames and goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit may not be recoverable. several factors, including a challenging operating environment, impacts affecting consumer demand or spending, the deterioration of general macroeconomic conditions, or other factors could result in a change to the future cash flows we expect to derive from our operations. reductions of the cash flows used in the impairment analyses 23 table of contents may result in the recording of an impairment charge to a reporting unit&rsquo;s tradename or goodwill, which could adversely impact our results of operations. our hedging strategies may not be cost-effective or adequately protect us from increased costs related to changes in fuel prices. in order to manage risks associated with the variable market prices of fuel, we routinely hedge a portion of our future fuel requirements. however, our hedging program may not be successful in mitigating higher fuel costs, and any price protection provided may be limited due to market conditions, including choice of hedging instruments, breakdown of correlation between hedging instrument and market price of fuel and failure of hedge counterparties. to the extent that we use hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if fuel prices decline significantly, such hedge contracts may limit our ability to benefit fully from lower fuel costs in the future. there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will be cost-effective, will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our hedging arrangements. additionally, deterioration in our financial condition could negatively affect our ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future. our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that all of our risks are fully insured against or that any particular claim will be fully paid by our insurance. such losses, to the extent they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could affect our financial results. in addition, we have been and continue to be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity coverage for tort liability. our payment of these calls and increased premiums could result in significant expenses to us. if we were to sustain significant losses in the future, our ability to obtain insurance coverage at all or at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely affected. moreover, irrespective of the occurrence of such events, there can still be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments. our level of indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, prospects and flexibility. our substantial indebtedness could: &middot; limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; &middot; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; &middot; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes; &middot; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; &middot; make us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; &middot; make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, the economy or the industry in which we operate; &middot; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; &middot; restrict us from taking certain actions by means of restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness; &middot; make our credit card processors seek more restrictive terms in respect of our credit card arrangements; and &middot; expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain borrowings are (and may be in the future) at a variable rate of interest. we also may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness at any time in the future. although the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, including refinancing our indebtedness, that may not be successful. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. 24 table of contents the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours may contain, covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions or prohibitions on our ability to, among other things: &middot; incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preference shares; &middot; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our share capital or make other restricted payments, including the ability of nclh&rsquo;s subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay dividends or make distributions to nclh; &middot; repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; &middot; make certain investments or acquisitions; &middot; transfer or sell certain assets; &middot; create liens on certain assets; &middot; consolidate or merge with, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets to, other companies; &middot; enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; &middot; pledge the capital stock of any guarantors of our indebtedness; and &middot; designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. as a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. we have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our existing debt agreements. if any of the holders of our indebtedness accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. under our existing debt agreements, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. a failure to comply with the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements could result in an event of default under such agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in the event of any default under our existing debt agreements, the holders of our indebtedness thereunder: &middot; will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us, if applicable; &middot; could elect to declare all indebtedness outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, if applicable; and/or &middot; could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay such indebtedness. such actions by the holders of our indebtedness could cause cross defaults under our other indebtedness. if we were unable to repay those amounts, the holders of our secured indebtedness could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. if the indebtedness under our existing debt agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. the impact of volatility and disruptions in the global credit and financial markets may adversely affect our ability to borrow and could increase our counterparty credit risks, including those under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees. there can be no assurance that we will be able to borrow additional money on terms as favorable as our current debt, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. economic downturns, including failures of financial institutions and any related liquidity crisis, can disrupt the capital and credit markets. such disruptions could cause counterparties under our credit facilities, derivatives, contingent obligations, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees to be unable to perform their obligations or to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them, which could include failures of financial institutions to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements and to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts and other agreements. also, we may be limited in obtaining funds to pay amounts due to our counterparties under our derivative contracts and to pay amounts that may become due under other agreements. if we were to elect to replace any counterparty for their failure to perform their obligations under such instruments, we would likely incur significant costs to replace the counterparty. any failure to replace any counterparties under these circumstances may result in additional costs to us or an ineffective instrument. 25 table of contents fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results. we earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase and own assets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the u.s. dollar; most significantly a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, particularly british pound, canadian dollar, euro and australian dollar. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against our other major currencies may adversely affect our u.s. dollar financial results and will reduce the u.s. dollar amount received upon conversion of these currencies into u.s. dollars. we have historically and may in the future enter into ship construction contracts denominated in euros or other foreign currencies. while we have entered into foreign currency derivatives to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with such contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portions of the ship construction contracts that have not been hedged. additionally, if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. overcapacity in key markets or globally could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to expand our fleet through our newbuild program and may add up to ten additional ships to our fleet through 2027. our competitors have also announced similar expansions to their fleets. these increases in capacity in the cruise industry globally and potential overcapacity in certain key markets may cause us to lower pricing, which would reduce profitability and adversely affect our results of operations. our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or the loss of key personnel may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success is dependent upon our personnel and our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees in order to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. we need to hire and train a considerable number of qualified crew members to staff the ships that will be joining our fleet in the coming years. this may require significant efforts on the part of our management team, and our inability to hire a sufficient number of qualified crew members would adversely affect our business. our executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. the unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect us. we rely on external distribution channels for passenger bookings, and major changes in the availability of external distribution channels could undermine our customer base. the majority of our guests book their cruises through independent travel agents, wholesalers and tour operators. in the event that these distribution channels are adversely impacted by an economic downturn, or by other factors, this could reduce the distribution channels available for us to market and sell our cruises and we could be forced to increase the use of alternative distribution channels we are not accustomed to. if this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, independent travel agents, wholesalers and tour operators generally sell and market our cruises on a non-exclusive basis. although we offer commissions and other incentives to them for booking our cruises, there can be no guarantee that our competitors will not offer higher commissions and incentives in the future. travel agents may face increasing pressure from our competitors, particularly in the north american market, to sell and market our competitors&rsquo; cruises exclusively. if such exclusive arrangements were introduced, there can be no assurances that we will be able to find alternative distribution channels to ensure that our customer base would not be affected. we rely on third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services, and we are exposed to risks facing such providers. in certain circumstances, we may not be able to replace such third parties or we may be forced to replace them at an increased cost to us. we rely on external third parties to provide hotel management services for certain ships and certain other services that are vital to our business. if these service providers suffer financial hardship or are otherwise unable to continue providing such services, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to replace such service providers in a timely manner, which may cause an interruption in our operations. to the extent that we are able to replace such service providers, we may be forced to pay an increased cost for equivalent services. both the interruption of operations and the replacement of the third-party service providers at an increased cost could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. delays in our shipbuilding program and ship repairs, maintenance and refurbishments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the new construction, refurbishment, repair and maintenance of our cruise ships are complex processes and involve risks similar to those encountered in other large and sophisticated equipment construction, refurbishment and repair projects. our ships are subject to 26 table of contents the risk of mechanical failure or accident, which we have occasionally experienced and have had to repair. if there is a mechanical failure or accident in the future, we may be unable to procure spare parts when needed or make repairs without incurring material expense or suspension of service, especially if a problem affects certain specialized maritime equipment, such as the radar, a pod propulsion unit, the electrical/power management system, the steering gear or the gyro system. in addition, availability, work stoppages, insolvency or financial problems in the shipyards&rsquo; construction, refurbishment or repair of our ships, or other &ldquo;force majeure&rdquo; events that are beyond our control and the control of shipyards or subcontractors, could also delay or prevent the newbuild delivery, refurbishment and repair and maintenance of our ships. any termination or breach of contract following such an event may result in, among other things, the forfeiture of prior deposits or payments made by us, potential claims and impairment of losses. a significant delay in the delivery of a new ship, or a significant performance deficiency or mechanical failure of a new ship could also have an adverse effect on our business. the consolidation of the control of certain european cruise shipyards could result in higher prices for refurbishment and repairs due to reduced competition. also, the lack of qualified shipyard repair facilities could result in the inability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. these potential events and the associated losses, to the extent that they are not adequately covered by contractual remedies or insurance, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on scheduled commercial airline services for passenger and crew connections. increases in the price of, or major changes or reduction in, commercial airline services could undermine our customer base or disrupt our operations. a number of our passengers and crew depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to ports of embarkation for our cruises. increases in the price of airfare due to increases in fuel prices, fuel surcharges, changes in commercial airline services as a result of strikes, weather or other events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings could adversely affect our ability to deliver guests and crew to or from our cruise ships and thereby increase our cruise operating expenses which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our revenue is seasonal, owing to variations in passenger fare rates and occupancy levels at different times of the year. we may not be able to generate revenue that is sufficient to cover our expenses during certain periods of the year. the demand for our cruises is seasonal, with the greatest demand for cruises generally occurring during the northern hemisphere&rsquo;s summer months. this seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. the seasonality of our results is increased due to ships being taken out of service for dry-docks, which we typically schedule during off-peak demand periods for such ships. accordingly, seasonality in demand and dry-dock periods could adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to cover the expenses we incur during certain periods of the year. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated systems and technology. these systems and technologies must be refined, updated and replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis in order for us to meet our customers&rsquo; demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so on a timely basis or within reasonable cost parameters, or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new system or technology, such as fuel abatement technologies, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. amendments to the collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may materially adversely affect our financial results. currently, we are a party to eight collective bargaining agreements. three of these agreements are in effect through 2017 and four through 2018. the remaining one is set to expire in 2020. any future amendments to such collective bargaining agreements or inability to satisfactorily renegotiate such agreements may increase our labor costs and have a negative impact on our financial condition. in addition, although our collective bargaining agreements have a no-strike provision, they may not prevent a disruption in work on our ships in the future. any such disruptions in work could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. unavailability of ports of call may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we believe that attractive port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports, including the specific port facility at which our guests will embark and disembark, is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security, safety and environmental concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, political instability, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and fees, local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists and sanctions programs implemented by the office of foreign assets control of the united states treasury department or other regulatory bodies. any limitations on the availability of ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 table of contents litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and damage our reputation. our business is subject to various u.s. and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances, it may not be economical to defend against such matters, and a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. as a result of any ship-related or other incidents, litigation claims, enforcement actions and regulatory actions and investigations, including, but not limited to, those arising from personal injury, loss of life, loss of or damage to personal property, business interruption losses or environmental damage to any affected coastal waters and the surrounding area, may be asserted or brought against various parties, including us and/or our cruise brands. the time and attention of our management may also be diverted in defending such claims, actions and investigations. subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may also incur costs both in defending against any claims, actions and investigations and for any judgments, fines, civil or criminal penalties if such claims, actions or investigations are adversely determined. risks related to the regulatory environment in which we operate future changes in applicable tax laws, or our inability to take advantage of favorable tax regimes, could increase the amount of taxes we must pay. we believe and have taken the position that our income that is considered to be derived from the international operation of ships as well as certain income that is considered to be incidental to such income (&ldquo;shipping income&rdquo;), is exempt from u.s. federal income taxes under section 883, based upon certain assumptions as to shareholdings and other information as more fully described in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation.&rdquo; the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. we believe and have taken the position that substantially all of our income derived from the international operation of ships is properly categorized as shipping income and that we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. it is possible, however, that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which nclh will satisfy complex stock ownership tests or the publicly traded test under section 883 as described in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash; taxation&mdash;exemption of international shipping income under section 883 of the code.&rdquo; there are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares, which could cause us or our subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. finally, any changes in our operations could significantly increase our exposure to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation&rdquo;), and we can give no assurances on this matter. if we or any of our subsidiaries were not to qualify for the exemption under section 883, our or such subsidiary&rsquo;s u.s.-source income would be subject to either the net tax regime or the 4% regime (each as defined in &ldquo;item 1&mdash; business&mdash; taxation). as of the date of this filing, we believe that nclh and its subsidiaries will satisfy the publicly traded test imposed under section 883 and therefore believe that nclh will qualify for the exemption under section 883. however, as discussed above, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause nclh to not meet the stock ownership or publicly traded tests. therefore, we can give no assurances on this matter. we refer you to &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;taxation.&rdquo; we may be subject to state, local and non-u.s. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. we may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. our state, local or non-u.s. tax treatment may not conform to the u.s. federal income tax treatment discussed above. we may be required to pay non-u.s. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property that may give rise to non-u.s. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial. the various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. these tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. for example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from u.s. federal income tax under section 883 and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the u.s. moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the u.s. &ndash; u.k. income tax treaty on income derived in respect of our u.s.&ndash;flagged operation. we are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue some environmental groups have lobbied for more extensive oversight of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise industry and its environmental impact. increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations on environmental protection and health and safety of workers could affect our operations. the u.s. environmental protection agency, the imo (a united nations agency with responsibility for the safety and security of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution by ships), the council of the european union and individual countries and u.s. states are considering, as well as implementing, new laws 28 table of contents and rules to manage cruise ship operations and waste. in addition, many aspects of the cruise industry are subject to governmental regulation by the u.s. coast guard as well as international treaties such as solas, an international safety regulation, marpol, an international environmental regulation, and stcw and its conventions in ship manning. the u.s. and various state and foreign government and regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations and policies, including those aimed at reducing the threat of invasive species in ballast water, requiring the use of low-sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements and further restricting emissions, including those of green-house gases, and improving sewage and greywater-handling capabilities. compliance with such laws and regulations may entail significant expenses for ship modification and changes in operating procedures which could adversely impact our operations as well as our competitors&rsquo; operations. among the laws impacting cruise ship operations are a 2006 ballot measure approved by alaskan voters requiring that cruise ships meet alaska water quality standards (&ldquo;wqs&rdquo;). the law was relaxed in 2013, allowing ship operators to apply for mixing zones in discharge permits, an option that may ease compliance with certain wqs, and reducing the need to remove ammonia, copper, zinc, and nickel from wastewater. the international labor organization&rsquo;s maritime labor convention, 2006 went into force on august 20, 2013. the convention regulates many aspects of maritime crew labor and impacts the worldwide sourcing of new crew members. marpol regulations have established special ecas with stringent limitations on sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions. ships operating in designated ecas (which include the baltic sea, the north sea/english channel, and many of the waters within 200 nautical miles of the u.s. and canadian coasts including the hawaiian islands; waters surrounding puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands have been included as of january 2014) are generally expected to meet the new sulfur oxide emissions limits through the use of low-sulfur fuels. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. by virtue of our operations in the u.s., the fmc requires us to maintain a third-party performance guarantee on our behalf in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to guests. the fmc has proposed rules that would significantly increase the amount of our required guarantees and accordingly our cost of compliance. there can be no assurance that such an increase in the amount of our guarantees, if required, would be available to us. for additional discussion of the fmc&rsquo;s proposed requirements, we refer you to &ldquo;item 1&mdash;business&mdash;regulatory issues.&rdquo; in 2007, the state of alaska implemented taxes, some of which were rolled back in 2010, which have impacted the cruise industry operating in alaska. it is possible that other states, countries or ports of call that our ships regularly visit may also decide to assess new taxes or fees or change existing taxes or fees specifically applicable to the cruise industry and its employees and/or guests, which could increase our operating costs and/or could decrease the demand for cruises. risks related to nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares shareholders of nclh may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than as shareholders of a u.s. corporation. we are a bermuda exempted company. the companies act 1981 of bermuda (the &ldquo;companies act&rdquo;), which applies to nclh, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and their shareholders. taken together with the provisions of nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws, some of these differences may result in you having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of nclh than you would have as a shareholder of a u.s. corporation. this affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the companies act or nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. nclh does not have current plans to pay dividends on its ordinary shares. nclh does not currently intend to pay dividends to its shareholders and nclh&rsquo;s board of directors may never declare a dividend. our existing debt agreements restrict, and any of our future debt arrangements may restrict, among other things, the ability of nclh&rsquo;s subsidiaries, including nclc, to pay distributions to nclh and nclh&rsquo;s ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders. in addition, any determination to pay dividends in the future will be entirely at the discretion of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, business opportunities, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that nclh&rsquo;s board of directors deems relevant. we are not legally or contractually required to pay dividends. in addition, nclh is a holding company and would depend upon its subsidiaries for their ability to pay distributions to nclh to finance any dividend or pay any other obligations of nclh. investors seeking dividends should not purchase nclh&rsquo;s ordinary shares. 29 table of contents provisions in nclh&rsquo;s constitutional documents may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations that nclh&rsquo;s shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws contain provisions that may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that its shareholders consider to be in their best interests. as a result, these provisions may prevent nclh&rsquo;s shareholders from receiving a premium to the market price of nclh&rsquo;s shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of nclh&rsquo;s shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. these provisions include (subject to the shareholders&rsquo; agreement): &middot; the ability of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to designate one or more series of preference shares and issue preference shares without shareholder approval; &middot; a classified board of directors; &middot; the sole power of a majority of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to fix the number of directors; &middot; the power of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors to fill any vacancy on nclh&rsquo;s board of directors in most circumstances, including when such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; and &middot; advance notice requirements for nominating directors or introducing other business to be conducted at shareholder meetings. additionally, nclh&rsquo;s bye-laws contain provisions that prevent third parties, other than the apollo holders, the tpg viking funds and genting hk, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of its outstanding shares without the consent of nclh&rsquo;s board of directors and provide for the lapse of rights, and sale, of any shares acquired in excess of that limit. the effect of these provisions as well as the significant ownership of ordinary shares by our sponsors may preclude third parties from seeking to acquire a controlling interest in nclh in transactions that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may prevent them from receiving a premium above market price for their shares. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we attempt to minimize these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivatives. the financial impacts of these derivative instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the notional, term and conditions of the derivatives with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes. derivative positions are monitored using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. interest rate risk as of december 31, 2016, we had interest rate swap agreements to hedge our exposure to interest rate movements and to manage our interest expense. as of december 31, 2016, 55.0% of our debt was fixed and 45.0% was variable, which includes the effects of the interest rate swaps. the notional amount of outstanding debt associated with the interest rate swap agreements as of december 31, 2016 was $308.5 million. based on our december 31, 2016 outstanding variable rate debt balance, a one percentage point increase in annual libor would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $29.1 million excluding the effects of capitalization of interest. foreign currency exchange rate risk as of december 31, 2016, we had foreign currency derivatives to hedge the exposure to volatility in foreign currency exchange rates related to our ship construction contracts denominated in euros. these derivatives hedge the foreign currency exchange rate risk on a portion of the payments on our ship construction contracts. the payments not hedged aggregate &euro;146.9 million, or $154.5 million based on the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate as of december 31, 2016. we estimate that a 10% change in the euro as of december 31, 2016 would result in a $15.5 million change in the u.s. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated remaining payments. fuel price risk our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices relates to the forecasted purchases of fuel on our ships. fuel expense, as a percentage of our total cruise operating expense, was 11.8%, 13.5% and 16.8% for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. we use fuel derivative agreements to mitigate the financial impact of fluctuations in fuel prices and as of december 31, 2016, we had hedged approximately 78%, 66%, 48% and 18% of our 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 projected metric tons of fuel purchases, respectively. we estimate that a 10% increase in our weighted-average fuel price would increase our anticipated 2017 fuel expense by $28.5 million. this increase would be partially offset by an increase in the fair value of our fuel swap agreements of $17.8 million. fair value of our derivative contracts is derived using valuation models that utilize the income valuation approach. these valuation models take into account the contract terms such as maturity, as well as other inputs such as fuel types, fuel curves, creditworthiness of the counterparty and the company, as well as other data points. 44 table of contents