quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the table below provides information as of december 31, 2000 about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date ---------------------- fair 2000 2001 2002 2003 total value ---- ---- ---- ---- ----- ----- ($ in millions) liabilities long-term--variable rate debt: the ritz-carlton, amelia island............ -- -- -- 89 89 87 credit facility (1)........................ -- -- -- 150 150 150 average interest rate (2).................... 8.9% 8.9% 8.9% -- -- -- - -------- (1) the company borrowed an additional $115 million under the revolver portion of the bank credit facility during the first quarter of 2001 to partially fund the acquisition of the crestline lessee entities and for general corporate purposes. (2) interest rates are based on various libor terms plus certain basis points which range from 200 to 225 basis points. the one-month libor rate at december 31, 2000 was 6.6%. we have assumed for purposes of this presentation that the libor rate remains unchanged. a 100 basis point increase in libor would increase our interest rate expense by approximately $2 million per year. 45quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate sensitivity the table below provides information about the company's derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including interest rate swaps and debt obligations. for debt obligations, the table presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. weighted average interest rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve as of december 31, 2001. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. weighted average variable rates are presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is the company's reporting currency. expected maturity date ------------------------------------------- fair 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 thereafter total value ---- ----- ----- ----- ----- ---------- ------ ------ ($ in millions) liabilities debt: fixed rate.............. $148 $ 66 $ 78 $ 568 $ 565 $4,080 $5,505 $4,963 average interest rate.. 8.1% 8.1% 8.1% 8.1% 8.0% 7.9% variable rate........... canadian mortgage...... $ 1 $ 2 $ 1 $ 1 $ 92 $ -- $ 97 $ 97 average interest rate.. 6.3% 8.4% 8.9% 9.2% 9.4% -- ------ total debt................ $5,602 interest rate derivatives interest rate swaps(1).. fixed to variable...... $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ 450 $ 450 average pay rate....... 8.0% 10.1% 10.7% 11.0% 11.1% 11.3% average receive rate... 9.5% 9.5% 9.5% 9.5% 9.5% 9.5% - -------- (1) the swap agreement became effective on january 15, 2002. as of december 31, 2001, approximately 98% of our debt bears interest at fixed rates. effective january 15, 2002, we entered an interest rate swap agreement, and, as a result, the percentage of our debt bearing interest at a fixed rate decreased to 90%. this debt structure largely mitigates the impact of changes in the rate of inflation on future interest costs. we have some financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including our bank credit facility. the interest rate on our bank credit facility, which had no outstanding balance at december 31, 2001 and $150 million at december 31, 2000, is based on various libor terms plus a spread. the weighted average interest rate for the facility was 4.4% for the year ended december 31, 2001 and 9.0% for the year ended december 31, 2000. the credit facility was repaid in full in december 2001 with the net proceeds from the offering of the series h senior notes and a portion of the proceeds from the sale of two properties. 53 subsequent to the series h senior note offering, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converts the $450 million notional amount from a fixed rate to a floating rate based on 30 day libor plus 450 basis points. a change in the libor rate of 100 basis points will result in an additional $4.5 million increase or decrease in interest expense. as discussed earlier, the swap has been designated as a hedge and changes in the interest rate over the life of the agreement are recorded as an adjustment to interest expense. changes in the fair value of the swap and the notes are reflected in the balance sheet as offsetting changes and have no income statement effect. in january 2002, in addition to the swap agreement, we have entered into a separate interest rate cap agreement with a different counter party that has a notional amount of $450 million and caps our floating rate interest expense at 14%. changes in interest rates will affect the fair value of the cap. the gains or losses from the changes in the market value of the cap will be recorded in other income or expense in the current period. exchange rate sensitivity the table below summarizes information on instruments and transactions that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates, including foreign currency forward exchange agreements. for foreign currency forward exchange agreements, the table presents the notional amounts and weighted average exchange rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. these notional amounts generally are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. expected maturity date ---------------------------------------- fair 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 thereafter total value ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ---------- ------ ------ ($ in millions) anticipated transactions and related derivative foreign currency forward exchange agreements contract amount.......... $ 7.1 $ 8.3 $ 8.9 $ 9.2 $97.0 $-- $130.5 $132.0 average contractual exchange rate........... 1.55 1.56 1.56 1.57 1.57 -- on august 30, 2001, canadian subsidiaries of the operating partnership entered into a mortgage loan pursuant to which they borrowed $96.6 million (denominated in us dollars) at a variable rate of libor plus 275 basis points. in addition, the subsidiaries entered into currency forward contracts to hedge the currency exposure of converting canadian dollars to us dollars on a monthly basis to cover debt service payments. this swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge of the principal payments, and the forward contracts are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with offsetting changes recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. the weighted average interest rate for this mortgage loan was 5.5% for the year ended december 31, 2001. the fair value of the forward contracts was $1.5 million at december 31, 2001. 54risk factors 16 risk factors we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. employees at certain of our third-party managed hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to review and renewal on a regular basis. for a discussion of these relationships, see part i item 1a. risk factors we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. where to find additional information the address of our principal executive office is 6903 rockledge drive, suite 1500, bethesda, maryland, 20817. our phone number is 240-744-1000. we maintain an internet website at: www.hosthotels.com. through our website, we make available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ). the public also may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov. our website also is a key source of important information about us. we routinely post to the investor relations section of our website important information about our business, our operating results and our financial condition and prospects, including, for example, information about material acquisitions and dispositions, our earnings releases and certain supplemental financial information related or complimentary thereto. th e website also has a governance page in the investor relations section that includes, among other things, copies of our by-laws, our code of business conduct and ethics and conflicts of interest policy for our directors, 15 our code of business conduct and ethics policy for employees, our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for each standing committee of host inc.'s board of directors, which currently are the audit committee, the compensation policy committee and the nominating and corporate governance committee. copies of these charters and policies, host inc.'s by-laws and host l.p.'s partnership agreement also are available in print to stockholders and unitholders upon request to host hotels &amp; resorts, inc., 6903 rockledge drive, suite 1500, bethesda, maryland 20817, attn: secretary. please note that the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, any document, unless expressly incorporated by reference therein. item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. financial risks and risks of operation our revenues and the value of our properties are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. the lodging industry is subject to changes in the travel patterns of business and leisure travelers, both of which are affected by the strength of the economy, as well as other factors. the performance of the lodging industry has traditionally been closely linked with the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in gross domestic product ( gdp ). changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers, particularly during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results. the majority of our hotels are classified as luxury or upper upscale. in an economic downturn, these types of hotels may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenue, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates. this characteristic may result from the fact that these hotels generally target business and high-end leisure travelers. in periods of economic difficulties, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting travel or seeking to reduce costs on their trips. during the recession in 2008 and 2009, overall travel was reduced, which had a significant effect on our results of operations. while operating results have improved since then, there continues to be uncertainty in the overall strength of the recovery in the united states, europe and other parts of the world. additionally, continued high unemployment has slowed the pace of the economic recovery. therefore, there can be no assurance that any increases in hotel revenues or earnings at our properties will continue for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, slower than anticipated growth in the economy. our results of operations and any forecast we make, may be affected by, and can change based on, a variety of circumstances that affect the lodging industry, including: changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate; changes in business and leisure travel patterns; the effect of terrorist attacks and terror alerts in the united states and internationally, as well as other geopolitical disturbances; supply growth in markets where we own hotels, which may adversely affect demand at our properties; the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to competing hotels; the performance of the managers of our hotels; outbreaks of disease and the impact on travel of natural disasters and weather; physical damage to our hotels as a result of earthquakes, hurricanes, or other natural disasters, or the income lost as a result of the damage; changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and unionization of the labor force at our hotels. a reduction in our revenue or earnings as a result of the above risks may reduce our working capital, impact our long-term business strategy, and impact the value of our assets and our ability to meet certain covenants in our existing debt agreements. in addition, continued political uncertainty and changes in government policies, in particular with respect to u. s. economic policy, federal budget deficit concerns, and the slowdown in the federal reserve's bond buying program could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions in the united states and throughout the world. this in turn could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect lodging demand and therefore our business and financial condition. in addition, u.s. government travel is approximately 5% of our business, and may suffer as a result of u.s. federal spending cuts resulting from regulations reducing the amount of travel by u.s. government employees and contractors. in 2013 we experienced weakened government demand for our hotel rooms in some markets such as washington, d.c., which may continue, depending on factors such as the outcome of u.s. federal budget negotiations. 16 disruptions in the financial markets may affect adversely our business and results of operations, our ability to obtain financing on reasonable and acceptable terms, and our ability to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. the united states and global equity and credit markets have experienced and may in the future experience significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions. this may cause the market price of the stock of many companies to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective and outstanding debt financings to widen considerably. in the event these disruptions occur, liquidity in the financial markets will be affected, which may make terms for financings less attractive, and, in some cases, result in the lack of availability of certain types of financing. uncertainty regarding the stability of the equity and credit markets may impact negatively our ability to access additional short-term and long-term financing on reasonable terms or at all, which would impact negatively our liquidity and financial condition. a prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may impact negatively our ability to enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. while we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity with which to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our operating results weaken significantly and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could affect materially and adversely our results of operations and financial condition. economic conditions may affect adversely the value of our hotels which may result in impairment charges on our properties. we analyze our assets for impairment throughout the year when events or circumstances occur that indicate that their carrying values may not be recoverable. for example, we analyze our assets for impairments when a property has current or projected losses from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when o ther material trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred, such that an asset's carrying value may not be recoverable. for impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property's carrying value over its fair value. we may incur additional impairment charges in the future, which charges will affect negatively our results of operations. we can provide no assurance that any impairment loss recognized would not be material to our results of operations. for information on impairment charges taken in 2013 and 2012, see part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies. we depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. unlike regular c corporations, host inc. must finance its growth and fund debt repayments largely with external sources of capital because it is required to distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain) in order to qualify as a reit, including taxable income recognized for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which it does not receive cash. funds used by host inc. to make required distributions are provided through distributions from host l.p. our ability to access external capital could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including credit market conditions as discussed above, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, or decreases in the market price of the common stock of host inc. our ability to access additional capital also may be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness which, under certain circumstances, restrict our incurrence of debt and the payment of dividends and host l.p. distributions. the occurrence of any of these factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future growth. we have substantial debt and may incur additional debt. as of december 31, 2013, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $4.8 billion. our substantial indebtedness requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which reduces the availability of our cas h flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, dividends and distributions and other general corporate needs. additionally, our substantial indebtedness could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our debt or to obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate needs on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all; or affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. if our cash flow and working capital are not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we will be required to raise additional funds through: sales of host l.p.'s op units or host inc.'s common stock; the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by host l.p.; or 17 the sale of our assets. we cannot make any assurances that any of these sources of funds will be available to us or, if available, will be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient to meet our obligations or fulfill our business plan. under certain circumstances, we would be required to use the cash from some of the events described ab ove to repay other indebtedness. the terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and these restrictions reduce our operational flexibility and create default risks. the documents governing the terms of our senior notes and our credit facility contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. these covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to: conduct acquisitions, mergers or consolidations, unless the successor entity in such transaction assumes our indebtedness; incur additional debt in excess of certain thresholds and without satisfying certain financial metrics; create liens securing indebtedness, unless an effective provision is made to secure our other indebtedness by such liens; sell assets without using the proceeds from such sales for certain permitted uses or to make an offer to repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness; make distributions without satisfying certain financial metrics; and conduct transactions with affiliates other than on an arm's length basis and, in certain instances, without obtaining opinions as to the fairness of such transactions. in addition, certain covenants in our credit facility also require us and our subsidiaries to meet financial performance tests. the restrictive covenants in the applicable indenture(s), the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in conducting our o perations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. in addition, certain of our mortgage debt requires that, to the extent cash flow from the hotels which secure such debt drops below stated levels, we escrow cash flow after the payment of debt service until operations improve above the stated levels. in some cases, the lender may apply the escrowed amount to the outstanding balance of the mortgage debt. if such provisions are triggered, the amounts required to be escrowed may affect negatively our liquidity from these mortgaged properties by limiting our access to cash flow after debt service. for a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness, see part ii item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial condition. our ability to pay dividends and to make distributions may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness or preferred units. we are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on classes and series of host inc. capital stock and host l.p.'s payment of distributions on its classes of units. under the terms of host l.p.'s credit facility, distributions to host l.p. unitholders, including host inc., upon which host inc. depends in order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, are permitted only to the extent that host l.p. can satisfy certain financial covenant tests (concerning leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest coverage) and meet other requirements. we also will be subject to similar restrictions under the terms of our senior notes if our senior notes are no longer rated investment grade. we are, however, permitted under our credit facility and senior notes indenture to make distributions of estimated taxable income that are necessary to maintain host inc.'s reit status. under the terms of host l.p.'s outstanding preferred op units, we are not permitted to make distributions on our common op units unless all cumulative distributions have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for payment) on our preferred op units. in the event that we fail to pay the accrued distributions on our preferred op units for any reason, i ncluding any restriction on making such distributions under the terms of our debt instruments (as discussed above), distributions will continue to accrue on such preferred op units and we will be prohibited from making any distributions on our common op units until all such accrued but unpaid distributions on our preferred op units have been paid (or funds for such payment have been set aside). an increase in interest rates would increase the interest costs on our credit facility and on our floating rate debt and could impact adversely our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. interest payments for borrowings on our credit facility, the mortgages on certain properties and fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps linked to two other properties are based on floating rates. as a result, an increase in interest rates will reduce our cash flow available for other corporate purposes, including investments in our portfolio. further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures and increase interest costs on any debt that is refinanced. we may from time to time enter into 18 agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts. currently, the majority of our mortgages with floating rates are fully or partially hedged through the use of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps or interest rate caps and floors. while these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of assets as part of our business strategy. rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. our senior notes are rated by moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's ratings services and fitch ratings. these independent rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes at any time. such downgrades may affect negatively our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. our expenses may not decrease if our revenue decreases. many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt-service payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the hotels. our expenses also will be affected by inflationary increases, and certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. in the event of a significant decrease in demand, our hotel managers may not be able to reduce the size of hotel work forces in order to decrease wages and benefits. our managers also may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. any of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures also could adversely affect the future growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties. our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. as part of our business strategy, we seek primarily to acquire luxury and upper upscale hotel properties. we may acquire properties through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other reits or similar real estate entities. we anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a co mbination of methods, including proceeds from host inc. equity offerings, issuance of limited partnership interests of host l.p., advances under our credit facility, the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness and proceeds from the sales of assets. to the extent there are disruptions in credit markets, it may limit our ability to finance acquisitions and may limit the ability of purchasers to finance hotels and therefore our ability to use disposition proceeds to finance acquisitions. we routinely are actively engaged in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions. we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefit that we anticipate from such acquisitions. our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities in connection with completed acquisitions. we may not achieve the value we anticipate from new hotel developments or value enhancement projects at our existing hotels. we currently are, and in the future may be, involved in the development of hotel properties, timeshare units or other alternate uses of portions of our existing properties, including the development of retail, office or apartments, including through joint ventures. there are risks inherent in any new development, including: we may not obtain the zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations necessary to complete the development. a delay in receiving these approvals could affect adversely the returns we expect to receive. any new construction involves the possibility of construction delays and cost overruns that may increase project costs. defects in design or construction may result in delays and additional costs to remedy the defect or require a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the defect. we may not be able to meet the loan covenants in any financing obtained to fund the new development, creating default risks. the development of timeshare units could become less attractive due to decreases in demand for residential, fractional or interval ownership, increases in mortgage rates and/or decreases in mortgage availability, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell the timeshares for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate. 19 in addition, to the extent that developments are conducted through joint ventures, this creates additional risks, including the possibility that our partners may not meet their financial obligations or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. see we may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could resul t in conflicts. any of the above factors could affect adversely our and our partners' ability to complete the developments on schedule and along the scope that currently is contemplated, or to achieve the intended value of these projects. for these reasons, there can be no assurances as to the value to be realized by the company from these transactions or any future similar transactions. we do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. to maintain our status as a reit, we are not permitted to operate any of our hotels. as a result, we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. for this reason, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions with respect to the daily operation and marketing of our hotels, such as decisions with respect to the setting of room rates, repositioning of a hotel, food and beverage pricing and certain similar matters. although we consult with our hotel operators with respect to strategic business plans, the hotel operators are under no obligation to implement any of our recommendations with respect to these matters. while we monitor the hotel managers' performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. the cash flow from our hotels may be affected adversely if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. because our management agreements are long term agreements, we also may not be able to terminate these agreements if we believe the manager is not performing adequately. from time to time, we have had, and continue to have, differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. we generally resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. however, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through dis cussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements or the failure of our managers to adequately manage the risks associated with hotel operations, including cyber-security risks, could affect adversely our results of operations. in addition, our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in, or provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, all of which may result in conflicts of interest. as a result, our hotel managers have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing lodging faciliti es that are not or would not be in our best interest. we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our consolidated hotels (other than employing, but not managing, associates at our properti es in brazil, new zealand and australia), we still are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. from time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. we also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes involving our third-party managers and their labor force or other events. the resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, a significant component of our hotel operating costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. as we are not the employer nor bound by any collective bargaining agreement, we do not negotiate with any labor organization, and it is the responsibility of each property's manager to enter into such labor contracts. our ability, if any, to have any material impact on the outcome of these negotiations is restricted by and dependent on the individual management agreement covering a specific property and we may have little ability to control the outcome of these negotiations. our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and potentially significant capital expenditures in order to remain competitive in the marketplace, maintain brand standards or to comply with applicable laws or regulations. the timing and costs of such renovations or improvements may result in reduced operating performance during construction and may not improve the return on these investments. we are required by our loan agreements or agreements with our hotel managers to make agreed upon capital expenditures. in addition, we will need to make further capital expenditures in order to remain competitive with other hotels, to maintain the economic value of our hotels and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. the timing of these improvements can affect hotel performance, part icularly if the improvements require closure of a significant number of rooms or other features of the hotels, such as ballrooms, meeting space and restaurants. these capital improvements reduce the availability of cash for other purposes and are subject to cost overruns and delays. in addition, because we depend on external sources of capital, we may not have the necessary funds to invest and, if we fail to maintain our properties in accordance with brand standards set by our managers, the manager may 20 terminate the management agreement. moreover, we may not necessarily realize a significant, or any, improvement in the performance of the hotels in which we make these investments. the ownership of hotels outside the united states and the expansion of our business into new markets outside of the united states will expose us to risks related to owning hotels in those international markets. part of our business strategy is to expand our presence outside of the united states. as of december 31, 2013, we own directly 15 hotels located outside of the united states. we also are party to a joint venture that owns 19 hotels in europe and to a joint venture that owns one hotel in australia and a non-controlling interest in two hotels currently open and five hotels in development in india. we may have difficulty managing our expansion into new geographic markets where we have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area, or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures and regulations. there are risks inherent in conducting business outside of the united states, which include: employment laws and practices; tax laws, which may provide for income or other taxes or tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that foreign earnings that are repatriated, directly or indirectly, are subject to dividend withholding tax requirements or other restrictions and which may affect our ability to repatriate non-u.s. earnings in a tax efficient manner; compliance with and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy; the willingness of domestic or international lenders to provide financing and changes in the availability, cost and terms of such financing; adverse changes in local, political, economic and market conditions; insurance coverage related to terrorist events; changes in interest rates and/or currency exchange rates and difficulties in hedging these risks; regulations regarding the incurrence of debt; difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; and difficulties in complying with u.s. rules governing reits while operating outside of the united states. any of these factors could affect adversely our ability to obtain all of the intended benefits of our international country expansion. if we do not effectively manage this expansion and successfully integrate the international hotels into our organization, our operating results and financial condition may b e adversely affected. we may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. we have made investments in joint ventures and are exploring further investment opportunities in the united states, asia, europe and latin america. we may, from time to time, invest as a co-venturer in other entities holding hotel properties instead of purchasing hotel properties directly. we also may sell interests in existing properties to a third party as part of forming a joint venture with such third party. investments in joint ventures may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. co-venturers often share control over the operation of a joint venture. actions by a co-venturer also could subject the assets to additional risks as a result of any of the following circumstances: our co-venturer might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint venture's, interests or goals; or our co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives. although generally we will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture in order to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers from focusing their time and effort on our business. our management agreements could affect the sale or financing of our hotels. under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer our hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets specified other 21 conditions. our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager's consent. if the manager does not consent to such sale or financing, we may be precluded from taking actions in our best interest. we may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance program for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and neither u. s. nor foreign terrorism insurance laws or regulations ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. we generally obtain terrorism insurance to cover property damage caused by acts of terrorism under separate standalone policies of insurance as well as policies on u.s. properties which currently are subject to u.s. federal government cost sharing as provided in the terrorism risk insurance program r eauthorization act ( tripra ). we also have terrorism insurance under our general liability program and in our program for directors' and officers' coverage. we also obtain terrorism insurance to cover some of our foreign properties through insurance programs involving or administered by foreign governments. we may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance policies for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and neither u.s. nor foreign terrorism insurance legislation or regulations ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. tripra is due to expire on december 31, 2014. there is no assurance that terrorism insurance will be readily available or affordable before or after expiration of tripra in december 2014 or that tripra will not be modified, repealed or allowed to expire. while tripra allows direct insurers to be reimbursed for certain losses they incur on u.s. properties resulting from nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) perils, tripra does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reimbursement. any damage related to war and to nbcr incidents, therefore, is excluded under policies covering our u.s. properties. moreover, many of our foreign prop erties are not covered against nbcr perils. we obtain a certain amount of property insurance coverage on our u.s. properties for nbcr perils through our wholly-owned subsidiary that acts as our direct insurer against such perils to the extent of reimbursement under tripra. we ultimately are responsible for any loss borne by our insurance subsidiary. as a result of the above, there remains uncertainty regarding the adequacy and cost of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of terrorist attacks that impact our properties. some potential losses are not covered by insurance. we, or our hotel managers, carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. these policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar types of properties. generally, our all-risk property policies provide coverage that is available on a per-occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, has an overall limit, as well as various sub-limits, on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. sub-limits exist for certain types of claims, such as service interruption, debris removal, expediting costs, landscaping replacement and natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes, and may be subject to annual aggregate coverage limits. the dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. in this regard, hotels in certain of our markets, including california, florida and new zealand, have in the past been and continue to be particularly susceptible to damage from natural disasters. recovery under the applicable policies also is subject to substantial deductibles and complex calculations of lost business income. there is no assurance that this insurance, where maintained, will fully fund the re-building or restoration of a hotel that is impacted by an earthquake, hurricane, or other natural disaster, or the income lost as a result of the damage. our property policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case where the manager of one of our hotels provides this coverage, any such claims will be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the manager's program for the same purpose. therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, or, in the case of hotels where coverage is provided by the manager, affects hotels owned by others, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached. each affected hotel only may receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. we may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive complete coverage for risks that affect multiple properties, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, or certain types of terrorism. in addition, there are other risks, such as certain environmental hazards, that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify coverage. we also may encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur, or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all or a part of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. in that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. 22 litigation judgments or settlements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. we have accrued a potential litigation loss of approximately $68 million in connection with a lawsuit in the 166th judicial district court of bexar county, texas involving the sale of land encumbered by a ground lease for the san antonio marriott rivercenter. see part i item 3. legal proceedings for more information on the verdict and the status of the appeal. we also are involved in various other legal proceedings in the normal course of business and are vigorously defending these claims; however, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of any pending legal proceedings. we believe, based on currently available information, that the results of such proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but might be material to our operating results for any particular period, depend ing, in part, upon the operating results for such period. we also could become the subject of future claims by the operators of our hotels, individuals or companies who use our hotels, our investors, our joint venture partners or regulating entities and these claims could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. we may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to hotels or businesses we acquire. assets and entities that we have acquired, or may in the future acquire, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. in general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements may not survive long enough for us to become aware of such liabilities and seek recourse against our sellers. while usually we require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warra nties that survive, such indemnification often is limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. as a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with acquired hotels and entities may exceed our expectations, plus we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may affect adversely our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. finally, indemnification agreements between us and the sellers typically provide that the sellers will retain certain specified liabilities relating to the assets and entities acquired by us. while the sellers generally are contractually obligated to pay all losses and other expenses relating to such retained liabilities without regard to survival limitations, materiality thresholds, deductibles or caps on losses, there can be no guarantee that such arrangements will not require us to incur losses or other expenses in addition to those incurred by the sellers. we depend on our key personnel. our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. none of our key personnel have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. we cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. while we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. exchange rate fluctuations could affect adversely our financial results. as a result of the expansion of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the euro, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the australian dollar, the new zealand dollar, the british pound sterling, the polish zloty, swedish krona, the brazilian real and the chilean peso. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and other foreign currencies, these transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. to the extent that we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with expenses paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate revenues or earnings in other currencies, the conversion of such amounts to u.s. dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of our revenues or earnings. applicable reit laws may restrict certain business activities. as a reit, host inc. is subject to various restrictions on the types of income it can earn, assets it can own and activities in which it can engage. business activities that could be restricted by applicable reit laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units. due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will conduct certain business activities, including those mentioned above, in one or more of our taxable reit subsidiaries. our taxable reit subsidiaries are taxable as regular c corporations and are subject to federal, state, local, and, if applicable, foreign taxation on their taxable income. 23 we may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are inherently illiquid. real estate properties generally cannot be sold quickly and, accordingly, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. the inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could affect adversely our financial condition and the ability to service our debt. in addition, under the federal income tax laws applicable to reit s, we may be limited in our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive from the hotels located on the leased ground. as of december 31, 2013, 36 of our hotels are subject to third-party ground leases (encumbering all or a portion of the hotel). these ground leases generally require periodic increases in ground rent payments, which often are based on economic indicators such as the consumer price index. our ability to pay ground rent could be affected adversely to the extent that our hotel revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. in addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would be required to assume the ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. we believe that our properties comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws. unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. additionally, even after we have sold a property, we may be liable for environmental liabil ities that occurred during our ownership. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and remediate hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. the owner or operator may be required to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, and for investigation and remediation costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of toxic or hazardous substances. these laws require that owners or operators of buildings properly manage and maintain these substances and notify and train those who may come into contact with them and undertake special precautions. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to toxic or hazardous materials. compliance with other government regulations can be costly. our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including title iii of the americans with disabilities act ( ada ), building codes and regulations pertaining to fire and life safety. under the ada, all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal rules related to access and use by disabled persons. these laws and regulations may be changed from time-to-time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. for example, the ada was revised substantially in september 2010 and our facilities were required to comply with the new regulations by march 15, 2012. a determination that we are not in compliance with the ada could result in a court order to bring the hotel into compliance, imposition of fines or an award of attorneys' fees to private litigants. compliance with the ada and other laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the operations of our international properties are subject to a variety of united states and international laws and regulations, including the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ). we have policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws, but we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international properties might be subject and the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. 24 risks of ownership of host inc.'s common stock there are limitations on the acquisition of host inc. common stock and changes in control. host inc.'s charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of host l.p., and the maryland general corporation law (the mgcl ) contain a number of provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that mig ht involve a premium price for host inc.'s stockholders or host l.p.'s unitholders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: restrictions on transfer and ownership of host inc.'s stock. to maintain host inc.'s qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of host inc.'s outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned in the last half of the taxable year, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, which, as defined in the code, may include certain entities. in addition, if host inc., or one or more owners of 10% or more of host inc., actually or constructively owns 10% or more of a tenant of host inc. or a tenant of any partnership in which host inc. is a partner, the rent received by host inc. either directly or through any such partnership from such tenant generally will not be qualifying income for purposes of the reit income qualification tests of the code, and, therefore, could jeopardize host inc.'s qualification as a reit, unless the tenant qualifies as a trs and certain other requirements are met. accordingly, host inc.'s charter prohibits ownership, directly or by attribution, by any person or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of shares of host inc.'s outstanding common stock, preferred stock or any other class or series of stock, each considered as a separate class or series for this purpose. together, these limitations are referred to as the ownership limit. stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the intended acquirer of the stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares of stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the stock or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares of host inc.'s stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of host inc.'s stock in excess of the ownership limit. these restrictions will not apply if host inc.'s board of directors determines that it is no longer in host inc.'s best interests to continue to qualify as a reit or that compliance with the restrictions on transfer and ownership is no longer required for host inc. to qualify as a reit. removal of members of the board of directors. host inc.'s charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. vacancies on host inc.'s board of directors may be filled, at any regular meeting or at any special meeting called for that purpose, by the affirmative vote of the remaining directors, except that a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority vote of the entire board of directors. any vacancy resulting from the removal of a director by the stockholders may be filled by the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. host inc.'s charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that host inc. has authority to issue is 1,100,000,000, consisting of 1,050,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. host inc.'s board of directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock into other classes or series of stock, and to establish the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption for each class or series. because host inc.'s board of directors has this power, it may give the holders of any class or series of stock terms, preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock. certain provisions of maryland law may limit the ability of a third-party to acquire control of host inc. certain provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of inhibiting a third-party from acquiring host inc., including: o business combination provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between a corporation and an interested stockholder (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's then outstanding shares of voting stock or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations: and o control share provisions that provide that holders of control shares of a corporation (defined as voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned or controlled by the acquirer, would entitle the acquirer 25 to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a control share acquisition (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of issued and outstanding control shares ) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. host inc. is subject to the maryland business combination statute. our bylaws contain a provision exempting us from the control share provisions of the mgcl. there can be no assurance that this bylaw provision exempting us from the control share provisions will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. additionally, title 3, subtitle 8 of the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what currently is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, such as a classified board, some of which we do not have. merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of host inc.'s assets. under maryland law and host inc.'s charter, subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer host inc.'s assets within the meaning of the mgcl if approved (1) by host inc.'s board of directors in the manner provided in the mgcl, and (2) by host inc.'s stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger of host inc. with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing host inc.'s form of organization from a corporation to a trust requires only the approval of host inc.'s stockholders holding a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the merger. under the mgcl, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange only is required to be approved by the board of directors of a maryland corporation if the corporation is the successor entity. host inc.'s voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. certain charter and bylaw amendments. host inc.'s charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transfer and ownership of host inc.'s stock, fixing the size of the board of directors within the range set forth in the charter, removal of directors, the filling of vacancies, exculpation and indemnification of directors, calling special stockholder meetings and others, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by host inc.'s stockholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. other charter amendments generally require approval of the board and the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. as permitted under the mgcl, host inc.'s charter and bylaws provide that the board of directors has the exclusive right to amend host inc.'s bylaws. these provisions may make it more difficult to amend host inc.'s charter and bylaws to alter the provisions described herein that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control or the acquisition of host inc. common stock, without the approval of the board of directors. shares of host inc.'s common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price of host inc.'s common stock. we have in the past and may in the future issue additional shares of common stock to raise the capital necessary to finance hotel acquisitions, fund capital expenditures, refinance debt or for other corporate purposes. sales of a substantial number of shares of host inc.'s common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could affect adversely prevailing market prices for host inc.'s common st ock. in addition, holders of op units who redeem their units and receive, at host inc.'s election, shares of host inc. common stock will be able to sell those shares freely. as of december 31, 2013, there are approximately 9.5 million op units outstanding owned by third parties that are redeemable, which represents approximately 1.3% of all outstanding units. further, a substantial number of shares of host inc.'s common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans. we maintain two stock-based compensation plans: (i) the comprehensive stock plan, whereby we may award to participating employees and directors restricted shares of common stock, options to purchase common stock and deferred shares of common stock, and (ii) an employee stock purchase plan. at december 31, 2013, there were approximately 18 million shares of host inc.'s common stock reserved and available for issuance under the comprehensive stock plan and employee stock purchase plan and 0.7 million outstanding options exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $15.41 per share. also as of december 31, 2013, host l.p. had outstanding $400 million principal amount of exchangeable senior debentures that currently are exchangeable for cash, shares of host inc.'s common stock or any combination thereof. assuming the holders elected to exchange and we elected to settle in shares of host inc. common stock, the debentures would be exchangeable for approximately 29.9 million shares based on the current exchange price. while these debentures currently are exchangeable through march 31, 2014 based on past trading prices of host inc. common stock, whether they remain exchangeable after march 31, 2014 will depend on then current trading prices of host inc. common stock. our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of host inc.'s common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit's equity securities is based primarily upon the market's perception of the reit's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and secondarily is based upon the value of the underlying assets. for that reason, shares of host inc.'s common stock 26 may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent that we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may impact negatively the market price of host inc.'s common stock. our failure to meet the market's expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions likely would affect adversely the market price of host inc.'s common stock. market interest rates may affect the price of shares of host inc.'s common stock. we believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a reit is the dividend rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher dividend rate. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of host inc.'s common stock to decrease. federal income tax risks to qualify as a reit, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits are required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain, regardless of available cash or outstanding obligations. to continue to qualify as a reit, host inc. is required to distribute to its stockholders with respect to each year at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain. to the extent that host inc. satisfies this distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable in come and net capital gain for the taxable year, it will be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on its undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. in addition, host inc. will be subject to a nondeductible 4% excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by host inc. with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of (1) 85% of its ordinary income, (2) 95% of its net capital gain, and (3) any undistributed taxable income from prior years, less excess distributions from prior years. host inc. intends to make distributions, subject to the availability of cash and in compliance with any debt covenants, to its stockholders in order to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid the imposition of a significant nondeductible 4% excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from host l.p. and its subsidiaries. there are differences in timing between host inc.'s recognition of taxable income and its receipt of cash available for distribution due to, among other things, the seasonality of the lodging industry and the fact that some taxable income will be phantom taxable income, which is taxable income that is not matched with cash flow. due to transactions entered into in years prior to host inc.'s conversion to a reit, host inc. could recognize substantial amounts of phantom taxable income in the future. it is possible that any differences between the recognition of taxable income and the receipt of the related cash could require us to borrow funds or for host inc. to issue additional equity in order to enable host inc. to meet its distribution requirements and, therefore, to maintain its reit status and to avoid the nondeductible 4% excise tax. in addition, because the reit distribution requirements prevent host inc. from retaining earnings, generally we will be required to refinance debt at its maturity with additional debt or equity. it is possible that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would not be sufficient to meet host inc.'s distribution and tax obligations. host l.p. owns 100% of the outstanding common stock and a portion of the outstanding preferred stock of two entities that have elected to be treated as reits. each of these subsidiary reits are subject to the same requirements that host inc. must satisfy in order to qualify as a reit, including the distribution requirements described above. adverse tax consequences would occur if host inc. or any of its subsidiary reits fail to qualify as a reit. we believe that host inc. has been organized and has operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a reit under the code, commencing with its taxable year beginning january 1, 1999, and host inc. currently intends to continue to operate as a reit during future years. in addition, host inc. owns, through host l.p., two entities that have elected to be treated as reits. as the requirements for qualification and taxation as a reit are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a reit are limited, no assurance can be provided that host inc. currently qualifies as a reit or will continue to qualify as a reit or that each of host inc.'s subsidiary reits qualify as a reit or will continue to qualify as a reit. if any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that host inc. would fail to qualify as a reit unless it (or the subsidiary reit) could avail itself of certain relief provisions. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change significantly the tax laws with respect to an entity's qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of its reit qualification. if host inc. or any of its subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, and any available relief provisions did not apply, the non-qualifying reit would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. moreover, unless entitled to statutory relief, the non-qualifying reit would not qualify as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which reit qualification was lost. any determination that host inc. or one of its subsidiary reits does not qualify as a reit will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could reduce materially the value of host inc.'s common stock. the additional tax liability of host 27 inc. or the subsidiary reit for the year, or years, in which the relevant entity did not qualify as a reit would reduce its net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to stockholders. furthermore, the non-qualifying entity no longer would be required to make distributions to its stockholders as a condition to reit qualification and all of its distributions to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary c corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. this means that, if host inc. were to fail to qualify as a reit, host inc.'s stockholders currently taxed as individuals would be taxed on those dividends at capital gain rates and host inc.'s corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case to applicable limitations under the code. host inc.'s failure to qualify as a reit also would cause an event of default under host l.p.'s credit facility, which default could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due thereunder, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under host l.p.'s outstanding debt securities. if our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. to qualify as a reit, host inc. must satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of its gross income must be passive income, such as rent. for the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our trs, which rental income currently constitutes substantially all of host inc.'s and each of our subsidiary reits' gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, ou r leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. we believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the internal revenue service ( irs ) will agree with this characterization. if the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, neither host inc. nor either of our subsidiary reits would be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to reits and each likely would lose its reit status. if our affiliated lessees fail to qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. rent paid by a lessee that is a related party tenant of host inc. will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to reits. we lease substantially all of our hotels to our subsidiary (or its affiliates) that is taxable as a regular c corporation and that has elected to be treated as a taxable reit subsidiary with respect to host inc. and to each subsidiary reit. so long as any affiliated lessee qualifies as a taxable reit subsidiary, it will not be treated as a related party tenant. we believe that our affiliated lessees have qualified and will continue to qualify, and that the taxable reit subsidiaries of each of our subsidiary reits have qualified and will continue to qualify, to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will not challenge the status of a taxable reit subsidiary for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in disqualifying any of our affiliated lessees (including the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits) from treatment as a taxable reit subsidiary, it is possible that host inc. or a subsidiary reit would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to reits and substantially all of its income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. if host inc. or a subsidiary reit failed to meet either the asset tests or the gross income tests, each likely would lose its reit status. despite the reit status of each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits, we remain subject to various taxes. one of the subsidiary reits of host inc. will be required to pay federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate on built-in gain recognized as a result of the sale of one or more of its hotels prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period, including certain hotels acquired from starwood and its affiliates in 2006. the total amount of gain on which the subsidiary reit woul d be subject to corporate income tax if all of its built-in gain assets were sold in a taxable transaction prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period would be material to it. recently enacted legislation, however, has reduced the 10-year period to five years in the case of dispositions of assets in 2012 or 2013. in addition, we expect that we could recognize other substantial deferred tax liabilities in the future without any corresponding receipt of cash. notwithstanding host inc.'s status as a reit, host inc. and our subsidiaries (including our subsidiary reits) are subject to federal, state, local and foreign taxes on their income and property in certain cases. for example, host inc. and our subsidiary reits will pay tax on certain types of income that are not distributed and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable reit subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm's length basis. moreover, the taxable reit subsidiaries of host inc. and our subsidiary reits are taxable as regular c corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent that they own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. host l.p. is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by host inc. 28 if the irs were to challenge successfully host l.p.'s status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, host inc. would cease to qualify as a reit and would suffer other adverse consequences. we believe that host l.p. qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. as a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. instead, each of its partners, including host inc., is required to report and pay tax, if applicable, on such partner's allocable share of its income. no assurance can be provided, however, that the irs will not challenge host l.p.'s status as a partnership for fed eral income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating host l.p. as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, host inc. would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to reits and, accordingly, would cease to qualify as a reit. if host l.p. fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or host inc. fails to qualify as a reit, either failure would cause an event of default under host l.p.'s credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under host l.p.'s outstanding debt securities. also, the failure of host l.p. to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes would cause it to become subject to federal, state and foreign corporate income tax, which tax would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including host inc. as a reit, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits is subject to limitations on its ownership of debt and equity securities. subject to certain exceptions, a reit generally is prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer to the extent that (1) the value of such securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit's total assets, (2) the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer's outstanding voting securities, or (3) the reit owns more than 10% of the value of the issuer's outstanding securities. a reit is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. however, a reit may not own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 25% of the value of the reit's total assets. if host inc. or any of its subsidiary reits were to violate these ownership limitations, each likely would lose its reit status. each of host inc. or its subsidiary reits may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. the federal income tax provisions applicable to reits provide that any gain realized by a reit from the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% excise tax. under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depend upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. we intend to hold our hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels consistent with our investment objectives. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% excise tax. risks relating to redemption of op units a holder who offers its op units for redemption may have adverse tax consequences. a holder whose op units are redeemed will be treated for federal and state income tax purposes as having sold the op units. the sale of these units is a taxable event and the holder thereof will be treated as realizing an amount equal to the sum of (1) the value of the common stock or cash the holder receives, and (2) the amount of host l.p.'s nonrecourse liabilities allocated to the redeemed op units. the gain or loss recognized by the holder of op u nits is measured by the difference between the amount realized by the holder and the holder's tax basis in the op units redeemed (which tax basis includes the amount of host l.p.'s nonrecourse liabilities allocated to the redeemed op units). it is possible that the amount of gain and/or the tax liability related thereto that the holder recognizes and pays could exceed the value of the common stock or cash that the holder receives. differences between an investment in shares of host inc. common stock and host l.p. op units may affect redeemed holders of op units. if a holder of op units elects to have its units redeemed, we will determine whether the holder receives cash or shares of host inc.'s common stock in exchange for the op units. although an investment in shares of host inc.'s common stock is substantially similar to an investment in host l.p. op units, there are some differences. these differences include form of organization, management structure, voting rights, liquidity and federal and state inco me taxation, some of which differences may be material to investors. 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 84 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. asia/pacific joint venture. we have a 25% interest in the asia/pacific jv with reco hotels jv private limited, an affiliate of gic re. the asia/pacific jv may be terminated after a period of seven years, which occurs in march of 2015. due to the ownership structure and the substantive participating rights of the non-host limited partner, including approval over financing, acquisitions and dispositions, and annual operating and capital expenditure budgets, the asia/pacific jv is not consolidated in our financial statements. the commitment period for equity contributions to the asia/pacific jv expired in march 2012. we did not extend the commitment period beyond the expiration date; however, as we continue to invest in asia, we may offer gic re opportunities to participate in certain acquisitions through the existing joint venture or through a new joint venture. as of december 31, 2013, the asia/pacific jv owns one hotel in australia and the partners have invested approximately $73 million (of which our share was $18 million) in a separate joint venture in india with accor s.a. and interglobe enterprises limited, in which the asia/pacific jv holds a 36% interest. th is joint venture is developing seven properties in india, totaling approximately 1,750 rooms, two of which opened in bangalore in 2012 and five of which are under various stages of development in chennai and delhi. the hotels will be managed by accor under the pullman, ibis and novotel brands. maui joint venture. we have a 67% ownership in a joint venture with an affiliate of hyatt residential group (the maui jv ) to develop, sell and operate a 131-unit vacation ownership project in maui, hawaii adjacent to our hyatt regency maui resort &amp; spa. 69 our ownership is a non-controlling interest as a result of the significant economic rights held by the hyatt member, who also is the managing member. the total estimated development costs are $200 million, which we expect will be funded with a $110 million construction loan, which is jointly and severally guaranteed by both partners, and member contributions. as of december 31, 2013, $50.5 million was drawn on the construction loan. we anticipate that host's investment in the maui jv will be approximately $60 million, which as of december 31, 2013 includes contributions of land valued at $36 million, $8 million in pre-formation expenditures and additional capital contributions of $3 million. as of december 31, 2013, the book value of our investment in the maui jv is $16 million. the project is expected to open in late 2014. hyatt place joint venture . on november 12, 2013, we opened the 255-room hyatt place nashville downtown in tennessee, which was developed for $43 million through a joint venture, in which we are a 50% partner, with white lodging services. the joint venture has a $34.8 million construction loan for this project, and as of december 31, 2013, $23.6 million was drawn on this facility. along with white lodging services, we have jointly and severally guaranteed the payment of the loan. we invested approximately $6 million for our investment in the joint venture. due to the significant control rights of our partner, we do not consolidate the joint venture in our financial statements. tax sharing arrangements . under tax sharing agreements with former affiliated companies (such as marriott international, inc., hms host and barcel crestline corporation), we are obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, lo cal and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) relating to periods in which the companies were affiliated with us. for example, a taxing authority could adjust an item deducted by a former affiliate during the period that this former affiliate was owned by us. this adjustment could produce a tax liability that we may be obligated to pay under the tax sharing agreement. additionally, under the partnership agreement between host inc. and host l.p., host l.p. is obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) incurred by host inc., as well as any liabilities the irs may successfully assert against host inc. we do not expect any amounts paid under these tax sharing arrangements to be material. tax indemnification agreements. as a result of certain federal and state income tax considerations of the former owners of two hotels currently owned by host l.p., we have agreed to restrictions on selling such hotels, or repaying or refinanci ng the mortgage debt, for varying periods. one of these agreements expires in 2028 and the other in 2031. guarantees . we have entered into certain guarantees, which consist of commitments we have made to third parties for leases or debt, that are not reco rded on our books due to various dispositions, spin-offs and contractual arrangements, but that we have agreed to pay in the event of certain circumstances, including default by an unrelated party. we consider the likelihood of any material payments under these guarantees to be remote. the largest guarantees (by dollar amount) are listed below: we remain contingently liable for rental payments on certain divested non-lodging properties. these primarily represent certain restaurants that were sold subject to our guarantee of the future rental payments. the aggregate amount of these future rental payments is approximately $17 million as of december 31, 2013. in 1997, we owned leisure park venture limited partnership, which currently owns and operates a senior living facility. we no longer have an ownership interest in the partnership, but remain obligated under a guarantee of interest and principal with respect to $14.7 million of municipal bonds issued by the new jersey economic development authority through their maturity in 2027. however, to the extent that we are required to make any payments under the guarantee, we have been indemnified by barcel crestline corporation, who, in turn, is indemnified by the current owner of the facility. in connection with the sale of two hotels in january 2005, we remain contingently liable for the amounts due under the respective ground leases. the future minimum lease payments are approximately $12 million through the full term of the leases, including renewal options. we believe that the likelihood of any liability arising related to these ground leases is remote and, in each case, we have been indemnified by the purchaser of the hotel. guarantees and environmental liabilities that are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet include: in connection with the sale of the atlanta marriott marquis in january 2013, we retained $5 million of contingent liabilities related to potential environmental liabilities. in connection with the sale of the ritz-carlton, san francisco in june 2013, we recorded a deferred gain of approximately $11 million, the recognition of which is subject to performance guarantees through which we have guaranteed certain annual net operating profit levels for the hotel through 2016, with a maximum payment of $4 million per year, not to exceed $11 million in total. 70 contractual obligations. the table below summarizes our obligations for principal and estimated interest payments on our debt, future minimum lease payments on our operating and capital le ases, projected capital expenditures and other long-term liabilities, each as of december 31, 2013 (in millions): payments due by period less than more than total 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years long-term debt obligations (1) $ 5,780 $ 548 $ 1,631 $ 828 $ 2,773 capital lease obligations 2 1 1 operating lease obligations 1,804 45 85 83 1,591 purchase obligations (2) 403 359 44 other long-term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet (3) 14 4 10 total $ 8,003 $ 953 $ 1,765 $ 911 $ 4,374 (1) the amounts shown include amortization of principal, debt maturities and estimated interest payments. interest payments have been included in this category based on the weighted average interest rate. (2) our only purchase obligations consist of commitments for capital expenditures at our hotels. under our contracts, we have the ability to defer some of these expenditures into later years. (3) the amounts shown include deferred management fees and the estimated amount of tax expense. under terms of our management agreements, we have deferred payment of management fees to our hotel managers for some of our properties that have not achieved the required income thresholds for payment of owner's priority to us. the timing of the payments, if any, is based on future operations, the termination of the management agreement or the sale of the hotel, and is, therefore, not determinable. the estimated amount of tax expense relates to uncertain tax liabilities from prior years. critical accounting policies our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with gaap, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. while we do not believe the reported amounts would be materially different, application of these policies involves the exercise of judgment and the use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to the impairment of long-lived assets, on an ongoing basis. we base our estimates on experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. all of our significant accounting policies are disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. the following represent certain critical accounting policies that require us to exercise our business judgment or make significant estimates. hotels acquired in a business combination . we record our investments in hotel properties based on the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at acquisition date. property and equipment are recorded at fair value and allocated to buildings, improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment using appraisals and valuations performed by management and independent third parties. fair values are based on the exit price (i.e. the price that would be received to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date). we evaluate several factors, including market data for similar assets, expected cash flows discounted at risk adjusted rates and replacement cost for the assets to determine an appropriate exit cost when evaluating the fair value of our assets. other items that we evaluate in a business combination include identifiable intangible assets, capital lease assets and obligations and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets typically are assumed contracts, including ground and retail leases and management and franchise agreements, which are recorded at fair value. above-market and below-market contract values are based on the present value of the difference between contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the contracts ac quired and our estimate of the fair value of rates for corresponding contracts measured over the period equal to the remaining non-cancelable term of the contract. intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining non-cancelable term of the related agreements. capital lease obligations that are assumed as part of the acquisition of a leasehold interest are measured at fair value and included as debt on the accompanying balance sheet and we record the corresponding right-to-use assets. classification of a lease does not change if it is part of a business combination. in making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, we may utilize a number of sources that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of a property and other market data, including third-party appraisals and valuations. in certain situations, a deferred tax liability may be created due to the difference between the fair value and the tax basis of the asset at the acquisition date. any consideration paid in excess of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired would be recorded to goodwill. in very limited circumstances, we may record a bargain purchase gain if the consideration paid is less than the net fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. furthermore, acquisition-related costs, such as due diligence, legal and accounting fees, are not capitalized or applied in determining the fair value of the acquired assets. 71 impairment testing. we analyze our assets for impairment throughout the year when events or circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying values thereof may not be recoverable. we consider a property to be impaired when the sum of future undiscounted cash flows over our remaining estimated holding period is less than the carrying value of the asset. for impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property's carrying value over its fair value. to the extent that a property has a substantial remaining estimated useful life and management does not believe that it is more likely than not the property will be disposed of prior to the end of its useful life, it would be unusual for undiscounted cash flows to be insufficient to recover the property's carrying value. in the absence of other factors, we assume that the estimated life is equal to the gaap depreciable life because of the continuous property maintenance and improvement capital expenditures required under our management agreements. we adjust our assumptions with respect to the remaining useful life of the property if situations dictate otherwise, such as an expiring ground lease, or that it is more likely than not that the asset will be sold prior to its previously expected useful life. we also consider the effect of regular renewal and replacement capital expenditures on the estimated life of our properties, including critical infrastructure, which regularly is maintained and then replaced at the end of its useful life. we test for impairment in several situations, including when a property has a current or projected loss from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when other events, tre nds, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred and the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. in the evaluation of the impairment of our assets, we make many assumptions and estimates, including: projected cash flows, both from operations and the eventual disposition; expected useful life and holding period; future required capital expenditures; and fair values, including consideration of capitalization rates, discount rates and comparable selling prices. while we consider all of the above indicators as preliminary indicators to determine if the carrying value may not be recovered by undiscounted cash flows, we reviewed the actual year-to-date and the projected cash flows from operations in order to identify properties with actual or projected annual operating losses or minimal operating profit as of december 31, 2013. the projected cash flows consider items such as booking pace, occupancy, room rate and property-level operating costs. as a result of our review, we identified five properties that required further consideration of property and market specific conditions or factors to determine if the property was impaired using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. management considered a range of revpar and operating margins compared to prior years' operating results in evaluating the probability-weighted projected cash flows from operations. to appropriately evaluate if the carrying value of the assets was recoverable, we projected cash flows such that the individual properties would return to normalized levels of operations generally within five years and thereafter grow at a stabilized rate of approximately 3% over the remaining estimated lives of the properties. this stabilized growth rate is lower than the projected growth rate for the urban upper upscale properties, which we believe is most representative of our portfolio, over the period from 2013 through 2023. based on this testing, four of the properties identified did not require further analysis. based on additional testing, one property exhibited an impaired value at december 31, 2013. management believes its assumptions and estimates reflect current market conditions. we recognized impairment expense in the aggregate amount of $1 million and $60 million for 2013 and 2012, respectively, based on a change in their estimated hold periods. other-than-temporary impairment of an investment. we review our equity method investments for other-than-temporary impairment based on the occurrence of any t riggering events that would indicate that the carrying amount of the investment exceeds its fair value on an other-than-temporary basis. triggering events can include a decline in distributable cash flows from the investment, a change in the expected hold period or other significant events which would decrease the value of the investment. our investments primarily consist of joint ventures which own hotel properties; therefore, we generally will have few observable inputs and will determine the fair value based on a discounted cash flow analysis of the investment, as well as considering the impact of other elements (i.e. control premiums, etc.). we use certain inputs, such as available third-party appraisals and forecast net operating income for the hotel properties, to estimate the expected cash flows. if an equity method investment is impaired, a loss is recorded for the difference between its fair value and its carrying value. based on this test, no other-than-temporary impairment was recorded in 2013. classification of assets as held for sale. our policy for the classification of a hotel as held for sale is intended to ensure that the sale of the asset is probable prior to classifying it as such, will be completed within one year and that actions required to complete the sale are unlikely to change or that it is unlikely the planned sale will not occur. this policy is consistent with our experience with real estate transactions under which the timing and final terms of a sale are frequently not known until purchase agreements are executed, the buyer has a significant deposit at risk and no financing contingencies exist which could prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner. specifically, we typically will classify properties that we actively are marketing as held for sale when all of the following conditions are met: host inc.'s board of directors has approved the sale (to the extent that the dollar amount of the sale requires board approval); 72 a binding agreement to sell the property has been signed; the buyer has committed a significant amount of non-refundable cash; and no significant contingencies exist which could prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner. to the extent that a property is classified as held for sale and its fair value less selling costs is lower than the net book value of the property, we will record an impairment expense. depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation expense is based on the estimated useful life of our assets and am ortization expense for leasehold improvements is based on the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful life of the related assets. the lives of the assets are based on a number of assumptions, including cost and timing of capital expenditures to maintain and refurbish the assets, as well as specific market and economic conditions. while management believes its estimates are reasonable, a change in the estimated lives could affect depreciation expense and net income (loss) or the gain or loss on the sale of any of our hotels. valuation of deferred tax assets. we have approximately $ 113 million, net of a valuation allowance of $61 million, of net deferred tax assets as of december 31, 2013. the objective of financial accounting and reporting standards for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in a company's financial statements or tax returns. we have considered various factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future projected taxable income and tax planning strategies in determining a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets, and we believe that it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize the $113 million of net deferred tax assets in the future. when a determination is made that all, or a portion, of the deferred tax assets may not be realized, an increase in income tax expense will be recorded in that period. valuation of derivative contracts. we occasionally will enter into derivative products, including interest rate and foreign currency swaps, caps and collars. derivative instruments are subject to fair value reporting at each re porting date and the increase or decrease in fair value is recorded in net income (loss) or other comprehensive income (loss), based on the applicable hedge accounting guidance. we estimate the fair value of these instruments through the use of third party valuations, which utilize the market standard methodology of netting the discounted future cash receipts and the discounted future expected cash payments. we incorporate credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both our own nonperformance risk and the respective counterparty's nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. in adjusting the fair value of our derivative contracts for the effect of nonperformance risk, we have considered the impact of netting any applicable credit enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts and guarantees. the variable cash flow streams are based on an expectation of future interest and exchange rates derived from observed market interest and exchange rate curves. the values of these instruments will change over time as cash receipts and payments are made and as market conditions change. any event that impacts the level of actual and expected future interest or exchange rates will impact our valuations. the fair value of our derivatives likely will fluctuate from year-to-year based on changing levels of interest and exchange rates and shortening terms to maturity. stock compensation. we recognize costs resulting from host inc.'s share-based payment transactions over their vesting periods . we classify share-based payment awards granted in exchange for employee services either as equity awards or liability awards. the classification of host inc.'s restricted stock awards either as an equity award or a liability award is based upon cash settlement options. equity classified awards are measured based on the fair value on the date of grant. liability classified awards are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. awards are classified as liability awards to the extent that settlement features allow the recipient to have a percentage of the restricted stock awards withheld to meet tax withholding requirements. the value of these restricted stock awards, less estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award the requisite service period (usually the vesting period). no compensation cost is recognized for awards for which employees do not render the requisite services. on january 20, 2012, the compensation policy committee of the board of directors adopted a new annual compensation plan for senior management (the annual plan ), that replaces the expired three-year plan (2009-2011) 2009 compensation program. the key components of the annual plan include the following awards: restricted stock awards with vesting based on market conditions. these awards vest based on the total shareholder return ( tsr ) relative to (i) the nareit index, (ii) the s&amp;p index, and (iii) a selected lodging company index that serves as a relevant industry/asset specific measurement to our competitors. u.s. based senior management may elect to have amounts withheld for taxes in excess of minimum statutory tax requirements, and, as result, tsr awards granted to these employees are classified as liability awards and are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. in contrast, senior management located outside of the u.s. are limited as to the amount of shares they may use for statutory tax requirements, and, as result, tsr awards granted to these employees are classified as equity awards and are recorded at fair value as of the grant date. the valuation of these awards is a custom calculation that is based on common valuation techniques such as the lattice, 73 binomial and black-scholes valuation methodologies. the utilization of this model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of host inc.'s common stock, risk-free interest rates, actual tsr from the beginning of the performance period through the measurement date, and host inc.'s stock beta as compared to the average risk of the peer groups. restricted stock awards with vesting based on performance conditions. these awards are earned based on achieving a specified performance target, which will be based on the employee's and the company's specific management business objectives for the performance year. compensation cost will be recognized when the achievement of the performance condition is considered probable. if a performance condition has more than one outcome that is probable, recognition of compensation cost will be based on the condition that is the most likely outcome. for u.s. based senior management, these awards are classified as liability awards due to their cash settlement provisions. therefore, the value of the shares to be issued by host inc. will be based on host inc.'s share price on the reporting date. stock option awards. the stock option awards are equity classified awards, as they do not include cash settlement features. therefore, the value of the award is determined on the grant date using a binomial pricing model and is not adjusted for future changes in fair value. vesting for these awards is based on service conditions. the utilization of the binomial model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates and the amount of our awards expected to be forfeited, and our expected dividend yield. on february 6, 2013, host inc. granted senior management 1.7 million restricted shares for performance year 2013 (which amount represents the maximum number of shares that can be earned during the year if performance is at the high level of achievement). vesting of these shares is subject to meeting the performan ce measures outlined above. approximately 50% of the restricted shares granted are market-based, with the remaining performance-based. in addition, host inc. awarded approximately 0.4 million stock options with an exercise price of $16.55 per share for performance year 2013. during 2013, we recorded approximately $18 million of stock compensation expense associated with the 2013 grant. consolidation policies. judgment is required with respect to the consolidation of partnership and joint venture entities i n terms of the evaluation of control, including assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests that are not controllable through voting interests. we consolidate subsidiaries when we have the ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the subsidiary. for the majority of our hotel and real estate investments, we consider those rights to be (i) approval or amendment of developments plans, (ii) financing decisions, (iii) approval or amendments of operating budgets, and (iv) investment strategy decisions. for those partnerships and joint ventures of which we are the general partner, we review the rights of the limited partners to determine if those rights would preclude the presumption of control as the general partner. limited partner rights which would preclude presumption of control by the general partner include the substantive ability to dissolve (liquidate) the limited partnership or otherwise remove us, as the general partner, without cause and substantive participating rights, primarily through voting rights. we also evaluate our subsidiaries to determine if they should be considered variable interest entities ( vies ). if a subsidiary is a vie, it is subject to the consolidation framework specifically for vies. we consider an entity a vie if equity investors own an interest therein that does not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or if such investors do n ot have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support. we review our subsidiaries and affiliates annually to determine if (i) they should be considered vies, and (ii) whether we should change our consolidation determination based on changes in their characteristics. foreign currency translation. the operations of international subsidiaries are maintained in their functional currency, which generally is the local currency, and are transl ated to u.s. dollars using the average exchange rates for the period. the assets and liabilities are translated to u.s. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. the resulting translation adjustments are reflected in other comprehensive income (loss). foreign currency transactions are recorded in the functional currency of each entity using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are remeasured at period end exchange rates. the resulting exchange differences are recorded in gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions and derivatives, except when recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) as qualifying net investment hedges. 74 comparable hotel operating statistics to facilitate a year-to-year comparison of our operations, we present certain operating statistics (i.e., revpar, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses, adjusted operating profit and associated margins) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. because these statistics and operating results relate only to our hotel properties, they exclude results for our non-hotel properties and other real estate investments. we define our comparable hotels as properties: (i) that are owned or leased by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations, for the entirety of the reporting periods being compared; and (ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or business interruption, or undergone large-scale capital projects (as further defined below) during the reporting periods being compared. the hotel business is capital-intensive and renovations are a regular part of the business. generally, hotels under renovation remain comparable hotels. a large scale capital project that would cause a hotel to be excluded from our comparable hotel set is an extensive renovation of several core aspec ts of the hotel, such as rooms, meeting space, lobby, bars, restaurants and other public spaces. both quantitative and qualitative factors are taken into consideration in determining if the renovation would cause a hotel to be removed from the comparable hotel set, including unusual or exceptional circumstances such as: a reduction or increase in room count, rebranding, a significant alteration of the business operations, or the closing of the hotel during the renovation. we do not include an acquired hotel in our comparable hotel set until the operating results for that hotel have been included in our consolidated results for one full calendar year. for example, we acquired the grand hyatt washington in july 2012. the hotel was not included in our comparable hotels until january 1, 2014. hotels that we sell are excluded from the comparable hotel set once the transaction has closed. similarly, hotels are excluded from our comparable hotel set from the date that they sustain substantial property damage or business interruption or commence a large-scale capital project. in each case, these hotels are returned to the comparable hotel set when the operations of the hotel have been included in our consolidated results for one full calendar year after completion of the repair of the property damage or cessation of the business interruption, or the completion of large-scale capital projects, as applicable. of the 115 hotels we owned on december 31, 2013, 105 have been classified as comparable hotels. the operating results of the following hotels that we owned or leased as of december 31, 2013 are excluded from comparable hotel results for these periods: the ritz-carlton, naples, removed in the third quarter of 2013 (business interruption due to the closure of the hotel during extensive renovations, which included renovations of 450 rooms, including 35 suites, restaurant, fa ade and windows); hyatt place waikiki beach (acquired in may 2013); grand hyatt washington (acquired in july 2012); the westin new york grand central (business interruption due to re-branding of the hotel and extensive renovations that were substantially completed by december 2012, including the renovation of 774 guest rooms, lobby, public and meeting spaces, fitness center, restaurant and bar); two hotels in christchurch, new zealand (business interruption due to the closure of the hotels following an earthquake in february 2011 and the subsequent extensive renovations, which hotels reopened august 2013 and september 2012); orlando world center marriott, removed in the third quarter of 2012 (business interruption due to extensive renovations, which included fa ade restoration, the shutdown of the main pool and a complete restoration and enhancement of the hotel, including new water slides and activity areas, new pool dining facilities and the renovation of one tower of guestrooms, meeting space and restaurants); atlanta marriott perimeter center, removed in the third quarter of 2011 (business interruption due to extensive renovations that were completed in april 2012, including renovation of the guest rooms, lobby, bar and restaurant and the demolition of one tower of the hotel); chicago marriott o'hare, removed in the third quarter of 2011 (business interruption due to extensive renovations that were completed in april 2012, including renovating every aspect of the hotel and shutting down over 200 rooms); and sheraton indianapolis hotel at keystone crossing, removed in the first quarter of 2011 (business interruption due to extensive renovations that were completed in january 2013, including the conversion of one tower of the hotel into apartments, reducing the room count, and the renovation of the remaining guest rooms, lobby, bar and meeting space). the operating results of eight hotels disposed of in 2013 and 2012 are not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein. 75 we evaluate the operating performance of our comparable hotels based on both market and property type. these divisions are generally consistent with groupings recognized in the lodging industry. our markets consist of the following: domestic boston greater boston metropolitan area; new york greater new york metropolitan area, including northern new jersey; philadelphia philadelphia metropolitan area; washington d.c. metropolitan area, including the maryland and virginia suburbs; atlanta atlanta metropolitan area; florida all florida locations; chicago chicago metropolitan area; denver denver metropolitan area; houston houston metropolitan area; phoenix phoenix metropolitan area, including scottsdale; seattle seattle metropolitan area; san francisco greater san francisco metropolitan area, including san jose; los angeles greater los angeles area, including orange county; san diego san diego metropolitan area; hawaii all hawaii locations; other select cities in california, indiana, louisiana, minnesota, missouri, north carolina, ohio, tennessee, and texas; international asia-pacific australia and new zealand; canada toronto and calgary; and latin america brazil, chile and mexico. our property types consist of the following: urban hotels located in primary business districts of major cities; suburban hotels located in office parks or smaller secondary markets; resort/conference hotels located in resort/conference destinations such as arizona, florida, hawaii and southern california; and airport hotels located at or near airports. constant us$, nominal us$, and constant euros operating results denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the prevailing exchange rates on the date of the transaction, or monthly based on the weighted average exchange rate for the period. for comparative purposes, we also present the revpar results for 2012 assuming the results of our foreign operations were translated using the same exchange rates that were effective for the comparable periods in 2013, thereby eliminating the effect of currency fluctuation for the year-over-year comparisons. we believe this presentation is useful to investors as it provides clarity with respect to the growth in revpar in the local currency of the hotel consistent with how we would evaluate our domestic portfolio. however, the effect of changes in foreign currency has been reflected in the actual results of net income, ebitda, earnings per diluted share and adjusted ffo per diluted share. nominal us$ results include the effect of currency fluctuations consistent with our financial statement presentation. we also present revpar results for our joint venture in europe in constant euros using the same methodology as used for the constant us$ presentation. non-gaap financial measures we use certain non-gaap financial measures, which are measures of our historical financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with gaap, within the meaning of applicable sec rules. these measures are as follows: (i) ebitda and adjusted ebitda, as a measure of performance for host inc. and host l.p. , (ii) funds from operations ( ffo ) and ffo per diluted share (both nareit and adjusted), as a measure of performance for host inc., and (iii) comparable hotel operating results, as a measure of performance for host inc. and host l.p. we calculate nareit ffo per diluted share in accordance with standards established by nareit, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the nareit definition of ffo or do not calculate ffo per 76 diluted share in accordance with nareit guidance. in addition, although ffo per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other reits, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-reits. we also calculate adjusted ffo per diluted share, which measure is not in accordance with nareit guidance and may not be comparable to measures calculated by other reits. ebitda and adjusted ebitda, as presented, also may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies. this information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with gaap. cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures), interest expense (for ebitda and adjusted ebitda purposes only) and other items have been and will be made and are not reflected in the ebitda, adjusted ebitda, nareit ffo per diluted share and adjusted ffo per diluted share presentations. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include interest expense, capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-gaap financial measures. additionally, nareit ffo per diluted share, adjusted ffo per diluted share, ebitda and adjusted ebitda should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. in addition, nareit ffo per diluted share and adjusted ffo per diluted share do not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to stockholders' benefit. the following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful measures of our performance. ebitda and adjusted ebitda ebitda earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) is a commonly used measure of performance in many industries. management believes ebitda provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because it helps us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating perfor mance of our properties after removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest expense) and our asset base (primarily depreciation and amortization). management also believes the use of ebitda facilitates comparisons between us and other lodging reits, hotel owners who are not reits and other capital-intensive companies. management uses ebitda to evaluate property-level results and as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and, like ffo and adjusted ffo per diluted share, it is widely used by management in the annual budget process and for compensation programs. adjusted ebitda historically, management has adjusted ebitda when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance and that the presentation of adjusted ebitda, when combined with the primary gaap presentation of net income, is beneficial to an inv estor's complete understanding of our operating performance. adjusted ebitda also is a relevant measure in calculating certain credit ratios. we adjust ebitda for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as adjusted ebitda: real estate transactions we exclude the effect of gains and losses, including the amortization of deferred gains, recorded on the disposition or acquisition of depreciable assets and property insurance gains in our consolidated statement of operations because we believe that including them in adjusted ebitda is not consistent with reflecting the ongoing performance of our assets. in addition, material gains or losses from the depreciated book value of the disposed assets could be less important to investors given that the depreciated asset book value often does not reflect its market value (as noted below for ffo). equity investment adjustments we exclude the equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated investments in partnerships and joint ventures as presented in our consolidated statement of operations because it includes our pro rata portion of depreciation, amortization and interest expense, which are excluded from ebitda. we include our pro rata share of the adjusted ebitda of our equity investments as we believe this more accurately reflects the performance of our investments. the pro rata adjusted ebitda of equity investments is defined as the ebitda of our equity investments adjusted for any gains or losses on property transactions multiplied by our percentage ownership in the partnership or joint venture. consolidated partnership adjustments we deduct the non-controlling partners' pro rata share of the adjusted ebitda of our consolidated partnerships as this reflects the non-controlling owners' interest in the ebitda of our consolidated partnerships. the pro rata adjusted ebitda of non-controlling partners is defined as the ebitda of our consolidated partnerships adjusted for any gains or losses on property transactions multiplied by the non-controlling partners' positions in the partnership or joint venture. cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle infrequently, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) promulgates new accounting standards that require the consolidated statement of operations to reflect the cumulative effect of a 77 change in accounting principle. we exclude these one-time adjustments because they do not reflect our actual performance for that period. impairment losses we exclude the effect of impairment expense recorded because we believe that including them in adjusted ebitda is not consistent with reflecting the ongoing performance of our remaining assets. in addition, we believe that impairment expense, which is based on historical cost book values, is similar to gains (losses) on dispositions and depreciation expense, both of which also are excluded from ebitda. acquisition costs under gaap, costs associated with completed property acquisitions are expensed in the year incurred. we exclude the effect of these costs because we believe they are not reflective of the ongoing performance of the company. litigation gains and losses effective april 1, 2013, we have excluded the effect of gains or losses associated with litigation recorded under gaap that we consider outside the ordinary course of business, which is consistent with the definition of adjusted ffo that we adopted effective january 1, 2011. we believe that including these items is not consistent with our ongoing operating performance. in unusual circumstances, we also may adjust ebitda for gains or losses that management believes are not representative of our current operating performance. for example, in the first quarter of 2013, management excluded the $11 million gain from the eminent domain claim for land adjacent to the atlanta marriott perimeter center for which we received the cas h proceeds in 2007, but, pending the resolution of certain contingencies, was not recognized until 2013. typically, gains from the disposition of non-depreciable property are included in the determination of adjusted ebitda. the following table provides a reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda (in millions): reconciliation of net income to ebitda and adjusted ebitda for host, inc. and host hotels, l.p. year ended december 31, 2013 2012 net income (1) $ 325 $ 63 interest expense 304 373 depreciation and amortization 696 662 income taxes 21 31 discontinued operations (2) 15 32 ebitda (3) 1,361 1,161 gain on dispositions (4) (98 ) (48 ) acquisition costs 1 7 recognition of deferred gain on land condemnation (1) (11 ) litigation loss (5) 8 gain on property insurance settlement (2 ) non-cash impairment expense 1 60 amortization of deferred gains and other property transactions (4 ) equity investment adjustments: equity in (earnings) losses of affiliates (6) 17 (2 ) pro rata adjusted ebitda of equity investments 48 34 consolidated partnership adjustments: pro rata adjusted ebitda attributable to non-controlling partners in other consolidated partnerships (21 ) (16 ) adjusted ebitda (3) $ 1,306 $ 1,190 ( 1 ) during the first quarter of 2013, we recognized a previously deferred gain of approximately $11 million related to the eminent domain claim by the state of georgia for 2.9 acres of land at the atlanta marriott perimeter center for highway expansion, for which we received cash proceeds in 2007. we have included the gain in nareit ffo per diluted share, which is consistent with the treatment of gains recognized on the disposition of undepreciated assets. however, due to the significant passage of time since we received the proceeds, we have excluded the gain from adjusted ffo per diluted share and adjusted ebitda for the year. ( 2 ) reflects the interest expense, depreciation and amortization and income taxes included in discontinued operations. ( 3 ) ebitda and adjusted ebitda include a gain on sale of undepreciated property of $21 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 for the sale of excess land adjacent to our newport beach marriott hotel &amp; spa, as a gain on sale of undepreciated property. (4) reflects the gain recorded on the sale of five hotels in 2013 and three hotels in 2012. (5) effective april 1, 2013, we modified the definition of adjusted ebitda to exclude gains or losses associated with litigation outside the ordinary course of business, which is consistent with the definition of adjusted ffo that we adopted effective january 1, 2011. on december 13, 2013, the texas supreme court 78 granted our petition for review on litigation related to the sale of land under the san antonio marriott rivercenter in 2005. we have accrued $68 million related to this litigation which we believe reflects substantially all of our obligation assuming we lose the appeal. we have $25 million in restricted cash that will be utilized to pay a portion of any judgment, assuming we lose the appeal. (6) includes an adjustment of $15 million for our portion of the non-cash impairment charges related to one of the hotels in our joint venture in europe. the impairment charge has no effect on adjusted ebitda, nareit ffo or adjusted ffo. nareit ffo, nareit ffo per diluted share and adjusted ffo per diluted share. we present nareit ffo and nareit ffo per diluted share as non-gaap measures of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with gaap). we calculate nareit ffo per diluted share as our nareit ffo (defined as set forth bel ow) for a given operating period, as adjusted for the effect of dilutive securities, divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period in accordance with nareit guidelines. nareit defines ffo as net income (calculated in accordance with gaap), excluding gains (losses) from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate-related depreciation, amortization and impairments and adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect our pro rata share of the ffo of those entities on the same basis. we believe that nareit ffo per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that the presentation of nareit ffo per diluted share, when combined with the primary gaap presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. by excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization, imp airments and gains and losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of lesser significance in evaluating current performance, we believe such measures can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and with other reits, even though nareit ffo per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. as noted by nareit in its april 2002 white paper on funds from operations, since real estate values historically have risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. for these reasons, nareit adopted the ffo metric in order to promote an industry-wide measure of reit operating performance. we also present adjusted ffo per diluted share when evaluating our performance because management believes that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating perf ormance. management historically has made the adjustments detailed below in evaluating our performance, in our annual budget process and for our compensation programs. we believe that the presentation of adjusted ffo per diluted share, when combined with both the primary gaap presentation of earnings per share and ffo per diluted share as defined by nareit, provides useful supplemental information that is beneficial to an investor's complete understanding of our operating performance. we adjust nareit ffo per diluted share for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as adjusted ffo per diluted share: gains and losses on the extinguishment of debt we exclude the effect of finance charges and premiums associated with the extinguishment of debt, including the acceleration of the write off of deferred financing costs from the original issuance of the debt being redeemed or retired. we also exclude the gains on debt repurchases and the original issuance costs associated with the retirement of preferred stock. we believe that these items are not reflective of our ongoing finance costs. acquisition costs under gaap, costs associated with completed property acquisitions are expensed in the year incurred. we exclude the effect of these costs because we believe they are not reflective of the ongoing performance of the company. litigation gains and losses we exclude the effect of gains or losses associated with litigation recorded under gaap that we consider outside the ordinary course of business. we believe that including these items is not consistent with our ongoing operating performance. in unusual circumstances, we also may adjust nareit ffo for gains or losses that management believes are not representative of our current operating performance. for example, in the first quarter of 2013, management excluded the $11 million gain from the eminent domain claim for land adjacent to the atlanta marriott perimeter center for which we received the cash proceeds in 2007, but, pen ding the resolution of certain contingencies, was not recognized until 2013. typically, gains from the disposition of non-depreciable property are included in the determination of nareit and adjusted ffo. 79 the following table provides a reconciliation of net income to nareit ffo and adjusted ffo (separately and on a per diluted share basis) for host inc. (in millions, except per share amounts): host inc. reconciliation of net income to nareit and adjusted funds from operations per diluted share year ended december 31, 2013 2012 net income $ 325 $ 63 less: net income attributable to non-controlling interests (8 ) (2 ) net income attributable to host inc. 317 61 adjustments: gain on dispositions, net of taxes (1) (97 ) (48 ) gain on property insurance settlement (2 ) amortization of deferred gains and other property transactions, net of taxes (4 ) depreciation and amortization 703 691 non-cash impairment expense 1 60 equity investment adjustments: equity in (earnings) losses of affiliates (2) 17 (2 ) pro rata ffo of equity investments 26 20 consolidated partner adjustments: ffo adjustment for non-controlling partnerships (8 ) (7 ) ffo adjustments for non-controlling interests of host l.p. (8 ) (10 ) nareit ffo (3) 951 759 adjustments to nareit ffo: loss on debt extinguishment 40 35 acquisition costs (4) 1 10 recognition of deferred gain on land condemnation (5) (11 ) litigation loss (6) 8 loss attributable to non-controlling interests (1 ) adjusted ffo (3) $ 989 $ 803 for calculation on a per share basis: adjustments for dilutive securities (7) : assuming conversion of exchangeable senior debentures $ 26 $ 31 diluted nareit ffo $ 977 $ 790 diluted adjusted ffo $ 1,015 $ 834 diluted weighted average shares outstanding-eps 747.9 719.6 assuming conversion of exchangeable senior debentures 29.5 40.4 diluted weighted average shares outstanding - nareit ffo and adjusted ffo 777.4 760.0 nareit ffo per diluted share $ 1.26 $ 1.04 adjusted ffo per diluted share $ 1.31 $ 1.10 ( 1 ) reflects the gain recorded on the sale of five hotels in 2013 and three hotels in 2012. ( 2 ) see footnote (6) to the reconciliation of net income to ebitda and adjusted ebitda. ( 3 ) nareit and adjusted ffo include a gain on sale of $21 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 for the sale of excess land adjacent to our newport beach marriott hotel &amp; spa. ( 4 ) includes approximately $3 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, related to our share of acquisition costs incurred by unconsolidated joint ventures. ( 5 ) see footnote (1) to the reconciliation of net income to ebitda and adjusted ebitda. ( 6 ) see footnote (5) to the reconciliation of net income to ebitda and adjusted ebitda. (7) earnings (loss) per diluted share and nareit ffo and adjusted ffo per diluted share are adjusted for the effects of dilutive securities. dilutive securities may include shares granted under comprehensive stock plans, preferred op units held by non-controlling partners, exchangeable debt securities and other non-controlling interests that have the option to convert their limited partnership interests to common op units. no effect is shown for securities if they are anti-dilutive. 80 comparable hotel operating results. we present certain operating results for our hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses, adjusted operating profit and adjusted operating profit margin, on a comparable hotel, or same store, basis as supplemental information for investors. our comparable h otel results present operating results for hotels owned during the entirety of the periods being compared without giving effect to any acquisitions or dispositions, significant property damage or large scale capital improvements during these periods. we present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate-level costs, including expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. we eliminate corporate-level costs and expenses to arrive at property level results because we believe property-level results provide investors with more specific insight into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels. we eliminate depreciation and amortization because, even though depreciation and amortization are property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. as noted earlier, because real estate values historically have risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. as a result of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses or operating profit and these comparable hotel operating results should not be used to evaluat e our performance as a whole. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance. we present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period-to-period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel reits and hotel owners. in particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increase or decreases in revenues and/or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. while management believes that presentation of comparable hotel results is a same store supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or to assess the operating performance of these hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable portfolio hotel results. for these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of gaap operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management. 81 the following table presents certain operating results and statistics for our comparable hotels for the periods presented herein: comparable hotel results for host inc. and host l.p. (in millions, except hotel statistics) year ended december 31, 2013 2012 (1) number of hotels 105 105 number of rooms 55,278 55,278 percent change in comparable hotel revpar - constant us$ 5.8 % percent change in comparable hotel revpar nominal us$ 5.6 % operating profit margin (2) 9.9 % 7.2 % comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margin (2) 25.5 % 24.5 % comparable hotel revenues room $ 3,051 $ 2,896 food and beverage (3) 1,347 1,295 other 272 261 comparable hotel revenues (4) 4,670 4,452 comparable hotel expenses room 817 777 food and beverage (5) 983 958 other 139 139 management fees, ground rent and other costs 1,541 1,489 comparable hotel expenses (6) 3,480 3,363 comparable hotel adjusted operating profit 1,190 1,089 non-comparable hotel results, net (7) 140 105 earnings for hotels leased from hpt (8) (3 ) depreciation and amortization (697 ) (722 ) corporate and other expenses (9) (121 ) (107 ) operating profit $ 512 $ 362 ( 1 ) the full year 2012 is a leap year and includes one additional day of operations compared to the full year 2013. ( 2 ) operating profit margins are calculated by dividing the applicable operating profit by the related revenue amount. gaap margins are calculated using amounts presented in the consolidated statements of operations. comparable margins are calculated using amounts presented in the above table. (3) the reconciliation of total food and beverage sales per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable food and beverage sales is as follows: year ended december 31, 2013 2012 (1) food and beverage per the consolidated statements of operations $ 1,503 $ 1,419 non-comparable hotel food and beverage sales (189 ) (157 ) food and beverage sales for the property for which we record rental income 33 33 comparable food and beverage sales $ 1,347 $ 1,295 (4) the reconciliation of total revenues per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel revenues is as follows: year ended december 31, 2013 2012 (1) revenues per the consolidated statements of operations $ 5,166 $ 5,059 non-comparable hotel revenues (548 ) (426 ) hotel revenues for which we record rental income, net 52 51 revenues for hotels leased from hpt (8) (232 ) comparable hotel revenues $ 4,670 $ 4,452 82 ( 5 ) the reconciliation of total food and beverage expenses per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable food and beverage expenses is as follows: year ended december 31, 2013 2012 (1) food and beverage expenses per the consolidated statements of operations $ 1,095 $ 1,049 non-comparable hotel food and beverage expenses (133 ) (112 ) food and beverage expenses for the property for which we record rental income 21 21 comparable food and beverage expenses $ 983 $ 958 (6) the reconciliation of operating costs per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel expenses is as follows: year ended december 31, 2013 2012 (1) operating costs and expenses per the consolidated statements of operations $ 4,654 $ 4,697 non-comparable hotel expenses (408 ) (321 ) hotel expenses for which we record rental income 52 51 expense for hotels leased from hpt (8) (235 ) depreciation and amortization (697 ) (722 ) corporate and other expenses (9) (121 ) (107 ) comparable hotel expenses $ 3,480 $ 3,363 ( 7 ) non-comparable hotel results, net, includes the following items: (i) the results of operations of our non-comparable hotels, which operations are included in our consolidated statements of operations as continuing operations, (ii) gains on property insurance settlements, and (iii) the results of our office buildings. (8) the lease terminated on december 31, 2012. (9) for the year ended december 31, 2013, corporate expenses include a litigation loss of $8 million due to an adverse ruling related to our san antonio ground lease. 83 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk all information in this section applies to host inc. and host l.p. interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevailing market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. we have no derivative financial instruments that are held for trading purposes. we use derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks. the interest payments on 71 % of our debt are fixed in nature (this percentage does not include $300 million of mortgage debt for which we have swapped fixed interest payments for floating interest payments), which largely mitigates the effect of changes in interest rates on our cash interest payments. valuations for mortgage debt and the credit facility are determined based on expected future payments, discounted at risk-adjusted rates. the senior notes and the debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increase or decrease by 100 basis points, interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, our future earnings and cash flows by approximately $15 million in 2014. the table below presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates (in millions, except percentages): expected maturity date fair 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total value liabilities debt: fixed rate (1) $ 317 $ 398 $ 150 $ 40 $ $ 2,650 $ 3,555 $ 3,916 average interest rate 5.58 % 5.54 % 5.35 % 5.31 % 5.28 % 5.19 % variable rate (1) $ $ 446 $ 258 $ 500 $ $ $ 1,204 $ 1,204 average interest rate (2) 2.49 % 2.50 % 2.31 % 1.82 % % % total debt $ 4,759 $ 5,120 interest rate derivative fixed to variable-notional $ 300 $ $ $ $ $ fair value (asset)/liability $ (1 ) average pay rate (2) 3.25 % % % % % % average receive rate 5.531 % % % % % % variable to fixed-notional $ $ $ 118 $ $ $ fair value (asset)/liability $ 3 average pay rate 6.95 % 6.95 % 6.77 % % % % average receive rate (2) 5.04 % 5.04 % 4.96 % % % % (1) the amounts are net of unamortized discounts and premiums. (2) the interest rate for our floating rate payments is based on the rate in effect as of december 31, 2013. no adjustments are made for forecast changes in the rate. 84 interest rate swap derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. we have designated our floating-to-fixed interest rate swap derivatives as cash flow hedges. the purpose of the interest rate swaps is to hedge against changes in cash flows (interest payments) attributable to fluctuations in benchmark interest rates associated with variable rate debt. the derivatives are valued based on the prevailing market yield curve on the date of measurement. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk when we calculate the fair value of the swaps. changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) on the accompanying balance sheets. the hedges were fully effective as of december 31, 2013. the following table summarizes our interest rate swap derivatives designated as cash flow hedges (in millions): change in fair value total gain (loss) transaction notional maturity swapped year ended december 31, date amount date index all-in-rate 2013 2012 november 2011 (1) a$ 62 november 2016 reuters bbsy 6.7 % $ 1 $ (2 ) february 2011 (2) nz$ 79 february 2016 nz$ bank bill 7.15 % $ 2 $ (1) the swap was entered into in connection with the a$82 million ($71 million) mortgage loan on the hilton melbourne south wharf. (2) the swap was entered into in connection with the nz$105 million ($87 million) mortgage loan on seven properties in new zealand. interest rate swap derivatives designated as fair value hedges. we have designated our fixed-to-floating interest rate swap derivatives as fair value hedges. we enter into these derivative instruments to hedge changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt that occur as a result of changes in market interest rates. the derivatives are valued based on the prevailing market yield curve on the date of measurement. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. the change in the fair value of the derivative is offset largely by the corresponding change in the fair value of the underlying debt due to change in the 3-month libor rate, which is recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the debt. any difference between the change in the fair value of the swap and the change in the fair value in the underlying debt, which was not significant for the periods presented, is considered the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship and is recorded in net income (loss). we have three fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements for an aggregate notional amount of $300 million. during 2013 and 2012, the fair value of the swaps decreased $6 million and $4 million, respectively. as a result, we will pay a floating interest rate equal to the 3-month libor, plus a spread which ranges from 2.7% to 3.2%, as opposed to the fixed rate of 5.531%, on the notional amount of $300 million through march 1, 2014. during 2013 and 2012, the cash settlement received under the swap agreement decreased interest expense by $7 million and $6 million, respectively. 85 exchange rate sensitivity we have currency exchange risk as a result of our hotel ownership in australia, canada, chile, mexico, brazil, and new zealand and our investment in the european and asia/pacific joint ventures. we utilize several strategies to mitigate the exposure of exchange risk for our portfolio, including (i) utilizing local currency denominated debt (including foreign currency draws on our credit facility), (ii) entering into forward or option foreign currency purchase contracts, and (iii) investing through partnership and joint venture structures. for 2013 and 2012, revenues from our consolidated foreign operations were $271 million (or 5% of total revenues) and $268 million (or 5% of our total revenues), respectively. as of december 31, 2013, our international investments consisted of the following (in millions): consolidated 2013 net gain/(loss) consolidated non- credit on foreign assets mortgage controlling facility net asset currency country (book value) debt interest net assets draw exposure exposure (1) australia $ 123 $ (71 ) $ (11 ) $ 41 $ $ 41 $ (8 ) brazil 104 104 104 (9 ) canada 114 114 (100 ) 14 (1 ) chile 72 72 72 (7 ) mexico 36 (17 ) 19 19 new zealand 163 (87 ) 76 76 united kingdom (19 ) (19 ) $ 612 $ (158 ) $ (28 ) $ 426 $ (119 ) $ 307 $ (25 ) unconsolidated foreign currency 2013 net forward gain/(loss ) purchase credit on foreign investment contracts facility net asset currency balance (notional) draw exposure exposure (1) european joint venture $ 374 $ (163 ) $ (102 ) $ 109 $ 7 asia/pacific joint venture 20 20 (3 ) $ 394 $ (163 ) $ (102 ) $ 129 $ 4 (1) includes a net amount of $(23) million that is included in accumulated other comprehensive income and $2 million recognized during 2013 in our statement of operations. hedging instruments . as described above, to manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-u.s. hotels, where possible, we may enter into forward or option foreign currency purchase contracts or designate a portion of the foreign currency draws on our credi t facility as hedges of net investments in foreign operations. the foreign currency exchange agreements into which we have entered strictly are to hedge foreign currency risk and are not for trading purposes. as of december 31, 2013, we have five foreign currency forward sale contracts that hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in europe. these derivatives are considered hedges of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation and are marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) within the equity portion of our balance sheets. the foreign currency forward sale contracts are valued based on the forward yield curve of the foreign currency to u.s. dollar forward exchange rate on the date of measurement. pursuant to these contracts, we will sell the euro amount, as applicable, and receive the u.s. dollar amount on the forward sale date. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk when we calculate the fair value of the derivatives. the following table summarizes our foreign currency forward sale contracts (in millions): currently outstanding change in fair value all contracts total transaction total amount in transaction forward gain (loss) transaction foreign amount purchase year ended december 31, date range currency in dollars date range 2013 2012 may 2008-january 2013 120 $ 163 may 2014-january 2016 $ (5 ) $ 4 86 in addition to the foreign currency forward sale contracts, we have designated a portion of the foreign currency draws on our credit facility as hedges of net investments in foreign operations. as a result, currency translation adjustments in the designated credit facility draws are recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) within the equity portion of our balance sheet, which adjustments offset a portion of the translation adjustment related to our international investments. the following table summarizes the draws on our credit facility that are designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations (in millions): balance balance gain (loss) outstanding outstanding in year ended december 31, currency us$ foreign currency 2013 2012 canadian dollars (1) $ 29 c$ 31 $ 2 $ euros $ 102 74 $ (5) $ (2) (1) we have drawn an additional $71 million on the credit facility in canadian dollars that has not been designated as a hedging instrument. 87quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. the majority of our outstanding debt has a fixed interest rate. we use some derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks related to our borrowings. the table below provides information about our derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including interest rate swaps and debt obligations. for debt obligations, the table presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. weighted average interest rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve as of december 31, 2004. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. weighted average variable rates are presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency. the interest rate swaps and caps that we have entered into are strictly to hedge interest rate risk and not for trading purposes. expected maturity date total fair value 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter ($ in millions) liabilities debt: fixed rate $ 72 $ 578 $ 876 $ 598 $ 753 $ 2,519 $ 5,396 $ 5,756 average interest rate 7.4 % 7.4 % 7.0 % 6.8 % 6.6 % 7.1 % variable rate variable rate mortgages $ 1 $ 107 $ $ $ $ $ 108 $ 109 average interest rate 4.6 % 4.6 % % % % % total debt (1)(2) $ 5,504 $ 5,865 interest rate derivatives interest rate swaps fixed to variable $ $ $ 692 $ $ $ $ 692 $ 19 average pay rate 7.3 % 7.3 % 7.3 % % % % average receive rate 9.4 % 9.4 % 9.3 % % % % (1) excludes the fair market value of the interest rate swaps which totaled approximately $19 million as of december 31, 2004. (2) total debt excludes $20 million of mortgage debt, related to the hartford marriott farmington, that was reclassified as liabilities associated with assets held for sale at december 31, 2004. the hotel was sold on january 6, 2005. as of december 31, 2004, approximately 85.5% of our debt bears interest at fixed rates. this debt structure largely mitigates the impact of changes in interest rates. we have some financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including our credit facility. the interest rate on our credit facility is based on a spread over libor, ranging from 2.0% to 3.75%. there were no amounts outstanding on our credit facility at december 31, 2004. we expect the proportion of fixed rate debt in our capital structure to range from 70% to 85% of our total debt, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to achieve this result on terms acceptable to us. in furtherance of this objective, we have entered into three interest rate swaps effectively converting $692 million of fixed rate payments to floating rate payments based on a spread to libor. on december 20, 2001, we entered into a 5-year interest rate swap agreement, which was effective on january 15, 2002 and matures in january 2007, effectively converting our series i senior notes to floating rate 56 table of contents debt. under the swap, we receive fixed-rate payments of 9.5% and pay floating-rate payments based on one-month libor plus 450 basis points on a $450 million notional amount, which is equal to the current amount of outstanding series i senior notes. on august 21, 2003, we entered into two four-year interest rate swap agreements, which mature october 2007, effectively converting our series g senior notes to floating rate debt. under the swaps, we receive fixed-rate payments of 9.25% and we make floating-rate payments based on six-month libor plus 590 basis points on a $242 million notional amount, which is equal to the current amount of outstanding series g senior notes. we have designated the interest rate swaps as fair value hedges for both financial reporting and tax purposes and the amounts paid or received under the swap agreements will be recognized over the life of the agreement as an adjustment to interest expense. changes in the fair value of the swap and the series i senior notes and series g senior notes, respectively, are reflected in the balance sheet as offsetting changes and have no income statement effect. the fair value of the series i interest rate swap at december 31, 2004 and december 31, 2003 was $18 million and $34 million, respectively. the fair value of the series g interest rate swaps at december 31, 2004 and december 31, 2003 was $1 million and $2 million, respectively. these amounts are included in the senior notes line item on our consolidated balance sheet. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt and the above swap agreements decrease by 100 basis points, the decrease in interest expense would increase future earnings and cash flows by approximately $7 million annually. if market rates of interest on the same variable rate debt and swap agreements increase by 100 basis points, the increase in interest expense would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $7 million annually. exchange rate sensitivity as we have non-u.s. operations (specifically, the ownership of hotels in canada and mexico), currency exchange risk arises as a normal part of our business. to manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-u.s. hotel, where possible, we may enter into forward or option contracts. the table below summarizes information on instruments and transactions that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates, including foreign currency forward exchange agreements as of december 31, 2004. the foreign currency exchange agreements that we have entered into are strictly to hedge foreign currency risk and not for trading purposes. for foreign currency forward exchange agreements, the table presents the notional amounts and weighted average exchange rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. these notional amounts generally are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. expected maturity date total fair value 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter ($ in millions) anticipated transactions and related derivatives foreign currency forward exchange agreements contract amount $ 7 $ 57 $ $ $ $ 64 $ (20 ) average contractual exchange rate 1.57 1.57 on august 30, 2001, our canadian subsidiaries entered into a mortgage loan pursuant to which they borrowed $96.6 million (denominated in u.s. dollars) at a variable rate of libor plus 2.75%. the weighted average interest rate for this mortgage loan was 4.4% and 4.5%, respectively, for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. in addition, since the mortgage loan on these canadian properties is denominated in u.s. dollars and the functional currency of the canadian subsidiaries is the canadian dollar, the subsidiaries entered into currency forward contracts to hedge the currency exposure of converting canadian dollars to u.s. dollars on a monthly basis to cover debt service payments. up until april 2003, these forward exchange contracts had been designated as a cash flow hedges of the debt service payments, and the forward contracts were recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with offsetting changes recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. in december 2003, the company entered into certain transactions which resulted in the forward contracts no longer 57 table of contents qualifying as hedges. we recognized a loss of approximately $18 million in 2003, which was previously included in accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheet. during 2003, we prepaid approximately $39 million of the loan and terminated the foreign currency contracts equal to the prepayments for a payment of approximately $8 million. accordingly, the change in fair value is recorded in our consolidated statement of operations each period. for 2004, we recorded a loss of $7 million. the fair value of the forward contracts was approximately $(20) million and $(12) million, respectively, at december 31, 2004 and december 31, 2003. in january of 2005, we assigned approximately $32 million notional amount of the forward contracts to a third party for approximately $8 million, which approximated the fair value of those contracts on the date of sale. after this sale, our outstanding notional amount is approximately $20 million and the fair value of the remaining contracts is approximately $(8) million. 58 table of contents forward-looking statements in this report on form 10-k we make some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements are included throughout this report on form 10-k and the information incorporated by reference herein, including in the section entitled risk factors and relate to, among other things, analyses and other information based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. these forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, predict, project, will, continue, and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. these forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by us in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: national and local economic and business conditions and changes in travel patterns that will affect demand for products and services at our hotels, the level of room rates and occupancy that can be achieved by such properties and the availability and terms of financing and our liquidity; changes in taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; our ability to maintain properties in a first-class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate; our ability to acquire or develop additional properties and the risk that potential acquisitions or developments may not perform in accordance with expectations; our degree of leverage, which may affect our ability to obtain financing in the future; the reduction in our operating flexibility and our ability to pay dividends resulting from restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, including the risk of default that could occur, and in the terms of our preferred stock; the effect of terror alerts and potential terrorist activity on travel and our ability to recover fully under our existing insurance for terrorist acts and our ability to maintain adequate or full replacement cost all-risk property insurance on our properties; government approvals, actions and initiatives, including the need for compliance with environmental and safety requirements, and changes in laws and regulations or the interpretation thereof; the effects of tax legislative action; hmc ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for it to maintain reit status for federal income tax purposes, the ability of the operating partnership to satisfy the rules to maintain its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to maintain their status as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to operate effectively within the limitations imposed by these rules; the effect of any rating agency downgrades on the cost and availability of new debt financings; the relatively fixed nature of our property-level operating costs and expenses; and other factors discussed under the heading risk factors and in other filings with the sec. although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, any of these assumptions could prove to be inaccurate and the forward-looking 59 table of contents statement based on these assumptions could be incorrect and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed. our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent known and unknown risks and uncertainties. accordingly, our forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors described above and under the heading risk factors and in the information incorporated by reference herein. except as otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation to publicly release any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained in this annual report on form 10-k to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based 60 table of contents risk factors prospective investors should carefully consider, among other factors, the material risks described below. financial risks and risks of operation we depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. unlike corporations, our ability to reduce our debt and finance our growth largely must be funded by external sources of capital because hmc is required to distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its taxable income in order to qualify as a reit, including taxable income we recognize for tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive corresponding cash. our ability to access the external capital we require could be hampered by a number of factors many of which are outside of our control, including declining general market conditions, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, excessive cash distributions or decreases in the market price of hmc common stock. in addition, our ability to access additional capital may also be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, among other things, restricts our incurrence of debt and the payment of distributions. the occurrence of any of these above-mentioned factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us or at all and the failure to obtain necessary external capital could have a material adverse affect our ability to finance our future growth. we have substantial leverage. as of february 28, 2005, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $5.5 billion. our substantial indebtedness has important consequences. it currently requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, distributions to our partners and other general purposes. additionally, it could: limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our debt or obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general business purposes on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all; or affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. because hmc must distribute most of its taxable income in order to maintain its qualification as a reit, we depend upon external sources of capital for future growth. if our cash flow and working capital were not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we would have to raise additional funds. see risk factors we depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. our revenues and the value of our properties are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. the lodging industry experienced a down-turn from 2001 to 2003, and operations generally declined during this period. the decline was attributed to a number of factors including a weak economy, the effect of terrorist attacks, terror alerts in the united states and the war in iraq, all of which changed the travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers. while our operations have improved and revpar increased in 2004, we cannot provide assurance that changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers are permanent or whether they will continue to evolve creating new opportunities or difficulties for the industry. any forecast we make regarding our results of operations may be affected and can change based on the following risks: changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; changes in business and leisure travel patterns; 61 table of contents local market conditions such as an oversupply of hotel rooms or a reduction in lodging demand; the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to our competition; the performance of the managers of our hotels; changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and unionization of the labor force at our hotels. future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect us. previous terrorist attacks in the united states and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries. the impact which terrorist attacks in the united states or elsewhere could have on our business in particular and the u.s. economy, the global economy and global financial markets in general is indeterminable. it is possible that such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and on our results of operations and financial condition as a whole. our expenses may not decrease if our revenue drops. many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the hotels. our expenses will also be affected by inflationary increases, and in the case of certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. our managers may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. any of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures could adversely affect the growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties. our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive on the hotels situated on the leased properties. as of february 28, 2005, forty of our hotels are subject to third party ground leases (encumbering all or a portion of the hotel). these ground leases generally require increases in ground rent payments every five years. our ability to service our debt could be adversely affected to the extent that our revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. in addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would have to assume the ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price. we do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. because federal income tax laws restrict reits and their subsidiaries from operating a hotel, we do not manage our hotels. instead, we lease substantially all of our full-service properties to subsidiaries which qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries under applicable reit laws, and our taxable reit subsidiaries retain third-party managers to manage our hotels pursuant to management agreements. our income from the hotels may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they fail to maintain a quality brand name. while our taxable reit subsidiaries monitor the hotel managers performance, we have limited specific recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. in addition, from time to time, we have had, and continue to have, differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. we generally resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. however, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate such a dispute. failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, our hotel managers manage, and in some cases own or have invested in, hotels that compete with our hotels, which may result in conflicts of interest. as a result, our 62 table of contents hotel managers have in the past made and may in the future make decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interests. the terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, reducing operational flexibility and creating default risks. the documents governing the terms of our senior notes and our credit facility contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. the activities upon which such restrictions exist include, but are not limited to: acquisitions, mergers and consolidations; the incurrence of additional debt; the creation of liens; the sale of assets; capital expenditures; raising capital from the issuance of certain types of mandatorily redeemable capital stock; the payment of dividends; and transactions with affiliates. in addition, certain covenants in the credit facility require us and our subsidiaries to meet financial performance tests. the restrictive covenants in the indenture, the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. our failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. our ability to pay dividends may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness. we are, and may in the future become, parties to agreements and instruments which restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on our classes and series of capital stock. under the terms of our credit facility and our senior notes indenture, distributions to hmc by host lp, upon which hmc depends in order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, are permitted only to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, we can satisfy certain financial covenant tests and meet other requirements. for example, beginning in the third quarter of 2002 and continuing through the first quarter of 2004, host lp was prohibited from making distributions (other than in the amounts required to permit hmc to pay dividends necessary to maintain reit qualification) because our ebitda-to-interest coverage ratio as calculated under the indenture governing our senior notes (which measures the ratio of pro forma consolidated ebitda to pro forma consolidated interest expense) was below 2.0 to 1.0. during this period, host lp was only able to make distributions to hmc, and hmc was only able to pay dividends, to the extent that we were required to make distributions to maintain hmc status as a reit. while our ebitda-to-interest coverage ratio is currently above 2.0 to 1.0 and as a result we are no longer limited by this particular restriction, a decline in our operations could once again limit the amount of distributions that host lp could make, and hmc ability to pay dividends, either because our ebitda-to-interest coverage ratio again falls below 2.0 to 1.0 or because we fail to meet other financial covenant tests or meet other requirements in our credit facility or senior notes indenture. our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may also be limited or prohibited by the terms of our preferred stock and convertible subordinated debentures. under the terms of each of our outstanding classes of preferred stock, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock unless cumulative dividends have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for 63 table of contents payment) on each such class of preferred stock. the amount of aggregate dividends that accrue on our outstanding classes of preferred stock each quarter is approximately $8 million. in the event that we fail to pay the accrued dividends on our preferred stock for any reason, including because we are prevented from paying such dividends under the terms of our debt instruments (as discussed above), dividends will continue to accrue on all outstanding classes of our preferred stock and we will be prohibited from paying any dividends on our common stock until all such accrued but unpaid dividends on our preferred stock have been paid (or funds for such payment have been set aside). we may defer interest payments on the convertible subordinated debentures for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive quarters. if interest payments on the convertible subordinated debentures are deferred, so too are payments on the convertible preferred securities. under this circumstance, we will not be permitted to declare or pay any cash distributions with respect to our capital stock or debt securities that rank pari passu with or junior to the convertible subordinated debentures. foreclosure on our mortgage debt could adversely affect our business. twenty-eight of our hotels and assets related thereto are subject to various mortgages in an aggregate amount of approximately $2.0 billion. although the debt is generally non-recourse to us, if these hotels do not produce adequate cash flow to service the debt secured by such mortgages, the mortgage lenders could foreclose on these assets. we may opt to allow such foreclosure rather than make the necessary mortgage payments with funds from other sources. however, our senior notes indenture and credit facility contain cross default provisions, which, depending upon the amount of secured debt defaulted on, could cause a cross default under both of these agreements. our credit facility, which contains the more restrictive cross default provision as compared to our senior notes indenture, provides that it is a credit facility default in the event we default on non-recourse secured indebtedness in excess of 1% of our total assets (using undepreciated real estate values) or default on other indebtedness in excess of $50 million. for this and other reasons, permitting a foreclosure could adversely affect our long-term business prospects. our mortgage debt contains provisions that may reduce our liquidity. certain of our mortgage debt requires that, to the extent cash flow from the hotels which secure such debt drops below stated levels, we escrow cash flow after the payment of debt service until operations improve above the stated levels. in some cases, the escrowed amount may be applied to the outstanding balance of the mortgage debt. when such provisions are triggered, there can be no assurance that the affected properties will achieve the minimum cash flow levels required to trigger a release of any escrowed funds. the amounts required to be escrowed may be material and may negatively affect our liquidity by limiting our access to cash flow after debt service from these mortgaged properties. rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. both our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by moody and standard &amp; poor s. these independent rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred stock at any time. these downgrades negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. our management agreements could impair the sale or financing of our hotels. under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets specified other conditions. our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager consent. if, in these circumstances, the manager does not consent, we may be precluded from taking actions in our best interest without breaching the management agreement. 64 table of contents the acquisition contracts relating to some hotels limit our ability to sell or refinance those hotels. for reasons relating to tax considerations of the former and current owners of seven hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods depending on the hotel. we have also agreed not to sell more than 50% of the original allocated value attributable to the former owners of a portfolio of 11 additional hotels, or to take other actions that would result in the recognition and allocation of gain to the former owners of such hotels for income tax purposes. we anticipate that, in specified circumstances, we may agree to similar restrictions in connection with future hotel acquisitions. as a result, even if it were in our best interests to sell these hotels or repay or otherwise reduce the level of the mortgage debt on such hotels, it may be difficult or costly to do so during their respective lock-out periods. we may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. the inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service our debt. in addition, there are limitations under the federal tax laws applicable to reits that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. applicable reit laws may restrict certain business activities. as a reit we are subject to various restrictions on our income, assets and activities. business activities that could be impacted by applicable reit laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units, investments in real estate mortgages, investments in securities and dispositions of certain properties. due to these restrictions, certain business activities, including those mentioned above, may need to occur in one or more of our taxable reit subsidiaries. our taxable reit subsidiaries are taxable as corporations and are subject to federal, state, and, if applicable, local and foreign taxation on their income at applicable corporate rates. in addition, under reit laws, the aggregate value of all of our taxable reit subsidiaries may not exceed 20% of the value of all of the reit assets. we depend on our key personnel. our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. none of our key personnel have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. we cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. while we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. litigation judgments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we are a party to various lawsuits. while we and the other defendants to such lawsuits believe all of the lawsuits in which we are a defendant are without merit and we are vigorously defending against such claims, we can give no assurance as to the outcome of any of the lawsuits. if any of the lawsuits were to be determined adversely to us or a settlement involving a payment of a material sum of money were to occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. as part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire upper-upscale and luxury hotel properties. we may acquire these properties through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, 65 table of contents joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other reits or similar real estate entities. we anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from equity offerings of hmc, issuance of limited partnership interests in host lp, advances under our credit facility, and the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness. we may, from time to time, be in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from one or more acquisitions that we consummate. our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities. we may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. instead of purchasing hotel properties directly, we may invest as a co-venturer. co-venturers often share control over the operation of a joint venture. for example, we entered into a joint venture with marriott international that owns two limited partnerships holding, in the aggregate, 120 courtyard by marriott hotels. subsidiaries of marriott international manage these courtyard by marriott hotels and other subsidiaries of marriott international serve as ground lessors and mezzanine lender to the partnerships. actions by a co-venturer could subject the assets to additional risk, including: our co-venturer in an investment might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint venture s, interests or goals; our co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; or our co-venturer could go bankrupt, leaving us liable for its share of joint venture liabilities. although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. also, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. we believe that our properties are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws. unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. these laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. 66 table of contents compliance with other government regulations can be costly. our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including title iii of the americans with disabilities act, building codes and regulations pertaining to fire safety. compliance with those laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. these regulations may be changed from time to time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some potential losses are not covered by insurance. we carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. these policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar type properties. generally, our all-risk property policies provide coverage that is available on a per occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, has an overall limit as well as various sub-limits on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. sub-limits exist for certain types of claims such as service interruption, abatement, earthquakes, expediting costs or landscaping replacement, and the dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. our property policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case of four of our hotels where the manager provides this coverage, any such claims will also be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the managers program for the same purpose. that means that, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, or, in the case of hotels where coverage is provided by the management company, affects hotels owned by others, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached and each affected hotel may only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. we may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive sufficient coverage for risks that affect multiple properties such as earthquakes or certain types of terrorism. in addition, there are other risks such as war, certain forms of terrorism such as nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism and some environmental hazards that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or may be too expensive to justify insuring against. if any such risk were to materialize and materially adversely affect one or more of our properties, we would likely not be able to recover our losses. we may also encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all, or a portion of, the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. in that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. we may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. we obtain terrorism insurance as part of our all-risk property insurance program. however, as noted above, our all-risk policies have limitations such as per occurrence limits and sublimits which might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. also, all-risk insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the terrorism risk insurance act (tria) for certified acts of terrorism namely those which are committed on behalf of non-united states persons or interests. furthermore, we do not have full replacement coverage at all of our properties for acts of terrorism committed on behalf of united states persons or interests ( noncertified events) as our coverage for such incidents is subject to 67 table of contents sublimits and annual aggregate limits. in addition, property damage related to war and to nuclear, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. while tria will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, biological and chemical perils, tria does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. in addition, tria terminates on december 31, 2005, and there is no guarantee that the terrorism coverage that it mandates will be readily available or affordable thereafter. as a result of the above, there remains considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks that impact our properties. risks of ownership of hmc common stock there are limitations on the acquisition of hmc common stock and changes in control. hmc charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of the operating partnership, hmc stockholder rights plan and the maryland general corporation law contain a number of provisions, the exercise of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or op unit holders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: restrictions on ownership and transfer of hmc stock. to maintain hmc qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of hmc outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the internal revenue code to include some entities. in addition, a person who owns, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of an interest in a tenant of ours, or a tenant of any partnership in which we are a partner, cannot own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of hmc shares without jeopardizing hmc qualification as a reit. unless exempted by hmc board of directors, hmc charter prohibits ownership, directly or by virtue of the attribution provisions of the internal revenue code, by any person or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of shares of hmc outstanding common stock, preferred stock or any other stock, each considered as a separate class or series for this purpose. together, these limitations are referred to as the ownership limit. stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the person who acquired the stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares of stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the stock or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares of hmc stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of hmc stock in excess of the ownership limit. these restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if the board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a reit. removal of board of directors. hmc charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast for the election of directors. vacancies on the board of directors may be filled by the concurring vote of a majority of the remaining directors (except that a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors must be filled by a majority vote of the entire board of directors) and, in the case of a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director by the stockholders, by at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. hmc charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that we have authority to issue is 800,000,000, initially consisting of 750,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. the board of directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock, including common stock into 68 table of contents preferred stock or vice versa, and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued. because the board of directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of stock without a stockholder vote, hmc board of directors may give the holders of any class or series of stock preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock. consent rights of the limited partners. under the partnership agreement of the operating partnership, we generally will be able to merge or consolidate with another entity with the consent of partners holding limited percentage interests that are more than 50% of the aggregate percentage interests of the outstanding limited partnership interests entitled to vote on the merger or consolidation, including any limited partnership interests held by us, as long as the holders of limited partnership interests either receive or have the right to receive the same consideration as hmc stockholders. hmc, as holder of a majority of the limited partnership interests, would be able to control the vote. under hmc charter, holders of at least two-thirds of hmc outstanding shares of common stock generally must approve a merger or consolidation. maryland business combination law. under the maryland general corporation law, specified business combinations, including specified issuances of equity securities, between a maryland corporation and any person who owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation then outstanding shares, or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who at any time during the two year period prior to the date in question owned 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the corporation (each, an interested stockholder ), or an affiliate of the interested stockholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. thereafter, any of these specified business combinations must be approved by 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of outstanding voting shares and by two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of voting shares other than voting shares held by an interested stockholder unless, among other conditions, the corporation common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the maryland general corporation law, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder. hmc is subject to the maryland business combination statute. maryland control share acquisition law. under the maryland general corporation law, control shares acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. control shares are voting shares which, if aggregated with all other voting shares previously acquired by the acquiror or over which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (1) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (2) one-third or more but less than a majority or (3) a majority or more of the voting power. control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. a control share acquisition means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specified exceptions. hmc is subject to these control share provisions of maryland law. merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of hmc assets. pursuant to hmc charter, subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer hmc assets within the meaning of the maryland general corporation law if approved (1) by hmc board of directors in the manner provided in the maryland general corporation law and (2) by hmc stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger of us with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing hmc form of organization from a corporation to a trust requires only the approval of hmc stockholders holding a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the merger. under the maryland general corporation law, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange is only required to be approved by a 69 table of contents maryland corporation by its board of directors if the corporation is the successor. hmc voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. certain charter and bylaw amendments. hmc charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transferability of hmc stock, fixing the size of the board of directors within the range set forth in the charter, removal of directors and the filling of vacancies, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by hmc stockholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. any amendments of these provisions of the charter (setting forth the necessary approval requirements) also would require action of the board of directors and the approval by stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. as permitted under the maryland general corporation law, hmc bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend hmc bylaws. these provisions may make it more difficult to amend hmc charter and bylaws to alter the provisions described herein that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control or the acquisition of hmc common stock, without the approval of the board of directors. stockholder rights plan. we adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, hmc stockholders, other than an acquiring person, will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created class or series of junior preferred stock, subject to hmc ownership limits described above. the preferred stock purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 20% or more of hmc outstanding shares of common stock or (2) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 20% or more of hmc outstanding common stock. the exercise of the preferred share purchase rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by hmc board of directors. shares of hmc common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price. sales of a substantial number of shares of hmc common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for hmc common stock. in addition, holders of units of limited partnership interest in the operating partnership, whose op units are redeemed by the operating partnership in exchange for common stock, will be able to sell those shares freely, unless the person is our affiliate and resale of the affiliate shares is not covered by an effective registration statement. further, a substantial number of shares of hmc common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans, including shares of common stock reserved for options, or pursuant to securities we may issue that are convertible into shares of hmc common stock or securities (other than op units) that the operating partnership has issued that are exchangeable for shares of our common stock. as of february 28, 2005, (i) there are approximately 21 million op units outstanding that are redeemable, and (ii) there are outstanding $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.25% exchangeable senior debentures of the operating partnership exchangeable under certain conditions for shares of hmc common stock at an initial exchange price equivalent to $18.30 per share for a total of approximately 27 million shares (subject to adjustment for various reasons, including as a result of the payment of dividends to common stockholders) (iii) there are outstanding $492 million of 6 3 / 4 % convertible preferred securities issued by the host marriott reit financial trust that are convertible into shares of hmc common stock at a conversion price equivalent to $15.367 per share for a total of approximately 31 million shares. moreover, additional shares of common stock issued by hmc would be available in the future for sale in the public markets. we can make no prediction about the effect that future sales of common stock would have on the market price of hmc common stock. our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of hmc common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit equity securities is based primarily upon the market perception of the reit growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from 70 table of contents operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets. for that reason, shares of hmc common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of hmc common stock. our failure to meet the market expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of hmc common stock. market interest rates may affect the price of shares of hmc common stock. we believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a reit is the distribution rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher distribution rate. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of hmc shares to go down. federal income tax risks the lower tax rate on certain dividends from regular c corporations may cause investors to hold stock in those corporations. while corporate dividends have traditionally been taxed at ordinary income rates, dividends received by individuals through december 31, 2008 from regular c corporations generally will be taxed at the maximum capital gains tax rate of 15% as opposed to the maximum ordinary income tax rate of 35%. reit dividends are not eligible for the lower capital gains rates, except in certain circumstances where the dividends are attributable to income that has been subject to corporate-level tax. this difference in the taxation of dividends could cause individual investors to view the stock of regular c corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of reits. individual investors could hold this view because the dividends from regular c corporations will generally be taxed at a lower rate while dividends from reits will generally be taxed at the same rate as the individual other ordinary income. we cannot predict what effect, if any, this difference in the taxation of dividends may have on the value of the stock of reits, either in terms of price or relative to other potential investments. to qualify as a reit, hmc is required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, irrespective of its available cash or outstanding obligations. to continue to qualify as a reit, hmc currently is required to distribute to its stockholders with respect to each year at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain. in addition, it will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by it with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of its ordinary income and 95% of its capital gain net income for that year and any undistributed taxable income from prior periods less excess distributions from prior years. hmc intends to make distributions, subject to the availability of cash and in compliance with any debt covenants, to its stockholders to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from the operating partnership. however, there are differences in timing between hmc recognition of taxable income and its receipt of cash available for distribution due to, among other things, the seasonality of the lodging industry and the fact that some taxable income will be phantom income, which is taxable income that is not matched by cash flow to us. due to some transactions entered into in years prior to the reit conversion, hmc could recognize substantial amounts of phantom income. it is possible that these timing differences could require us to borrow funds or to issue additional equity to enable hmc to meet the distribution requirement and, therefore, to maintain its reit status, and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax. in addition, because the reit distribution requirement prevents hmc from retaining earnings, we will generally be required to refinance debt that matures with additional debt or equity. we cannot assure you that any of the sources of funds, if available at all, would be sufficient to meet hmc distribution and tax obligations. 71 table of contents adverse tax consequences would apply if hmc failed to qualify as a reit. we believe that hmc has been organized and has operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code, commencing with its taxable year beginning january 1, 1999, and hmc currently intends to continue to operate as a reit during future years. no assurance can be provided, however, that hmc qualifies as a reit or that new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to its qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of its reit qualification. if hmc fails to qualify as a reit, and any available relief provisions do not apply, it will not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it will be subject to federal and state income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. in addition, unless entitled to statutory relief, it would not qualify as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which reit qualification is lost. any determination that hmc does not qualify as a reit would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and could reduce the value of our common stock materially. the additional tax liability to us for the year, or years, in which hmc did not qualify would reduce our net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to our stockholders. furthermore, hmc would no longer be required to make any distributions to stockholders as a condition to reit qualification and all of our distributions to stockholders would be taxable as regular corporate dividends to the extent of hmc current and accumulated earnings and profits, or e&amp;p. this means that stockholders taxed as individuals currently would be taxed on those dividends at capital gains rates and corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case, to applicable limitations under the internal revenue code. hmc failure to qualify as a reit also would cause an event of default under our credit facility that could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due under the credit facility, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under our outstanding debt securities. new legislation, enacted october 22, 2004, contained several provisions applicable to reits, including provisions that could provide relief in the event hmc violates certain provisions of the internal revenue code that otherwise would result in its failure to qualify as a reit. we cannot assure you that these relief provisions would apply if hmc failed to comply with the reit qualification laws. even if the relief provisions do apply, hmc would be subject to a penalty tax of at least $50,000 for each disqualifying event in most cases. hmc will be disqualified as a reit at least for taxable year 1999 if it failed to distribute all of its e&amp;p attributable to its non-reit taxable years. in order to qualify as a reit, hmc cannot have at the end of any taxable year any undistributed e&amp;p that is attributable to one of its non-reit taxable years. a reit has until the close of its first taxable year as a reit in which it has non-reit e&amp;p to distribute its accumulated e&amp;p. hmc was required to have distributed this e&amp;p prior to the end of 1999, the first taxable year for which its reit election was effective. if it failed to do this, it will be disqualified as a reit at least for taxable year 1999. we believe that distributions of non-reit e&amp;p that hmc made were sufficient to distribute all of the non-reit e&amp;p as of december 31, 1999, but we cannot provide assurance that we met this requirement. if our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, hmc would fail to qualify as a reit. to qualify as a reit, hmc must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of its gross income must be passive income, like rent. for the rent paid pursuant to the leases, which constitutes substantially all of our gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. in addition, the lessees must not be regarded as related party tenants, as defined in the internal revenue code. we believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will agree with this view. we also believe that crestline, the lessee of substantially all of our full service hotels prior to january 1, 2001, was not a related party 72 table of contents tenant and, as a result of changes in the tax laws effective january 1, 2001, our affiliated lessee will not be treated as a related party tenant so long as it qualifies as a taxable reit subsidiary. if the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes or if the lessee was regarded as a related party tenant, hmc would not be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to reits and it would lose its reit status. see risk factors federal income tax risks adverse tax consequences would apply if hmc failed to qualify as a reit above. if our affiliated lessee fails to qualify as a taxable reit subsidiary, hmc would fail to qualify as a reit. for our taxable years beginning on and after january 1, 2001, we are permitted to lease our hotels to a subsidiary of the operating partnership that is taxable as a corporation and that elects to be treated as a taxable reit subsidiary. so long as any affiliated lessee qualifies as a taxable reit subsidiary of ours, it will not be treated as related party tenant. we believe that our affiliated lessee qualifies to be treated as a taxable reit subsidiary for federal income tax purposes. we cannot assure you, however, that the irs will not challenge its status as a taxable reit subsidiary for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in disqualifying our affiliated lessee from treatment as a taxable reit subsidiary, hmc would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to reits and substantially all of its income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests and, accordingly, hmc would cease to qualify as a reit. see risk factors federal income tax risks adverse tax consequences would apply if hmc failed to qualify as a reit above. despite hmc reit status, we remain subject to various taxes, including substantial deferred and contingent tax liabilities. notwithstanding hmc status as a reit, we are subject to certain federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property. in addition, hmc will be required to pay federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate upon its share of any built-in gain recognized as a result of any sale before january 1, 2009, by the operating partnership of assets, including the hotels, in which interests were acquired by the operating partnership from our predecessor and its subsidiaries as part of the reit conversion. built-in gain is the amount by which an asset fair market value exceeded our adjusted basis in the asset on january 1, 1999, the first day of hmc first taxable year as a reit. the total amount of gain on which hmc would be subject to corporate income tax if the assets that we held at the time of the reit conversion were sold in a taxable transaction prior to january 1, 2009 would be material to us. in addition, at the time of the reit conversion, we expected that hmc or rockledge hotel properties, inc. or fernwood hotel assets, inc., or rockledge and fernwood, respectively (each of which is a taxable corporation in which the operating partnership owned a 95% nonvoting interest and, as of april, 2001, acquired 100% of the voting interests and each of which, elected to be a taxable reit subsidiary effective january 1, 2001), likely would recognize substantial built-in gain and deferred tax liabilities in the next ten years without any corresponding receipt of cash. hmc may have to pay certain state income taxes because not all states treat reits the same as they are treated for federal income tax purposes. we may also have to pay certain foreign taxes to the extent we own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. the operating partnership is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by hmc, as well as any liabilities that the irs or the tax authorities successfully may assert against hmc for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time it qualified as a reit. our taxable reit subsidiaries, including rockledge and fernwood, are taxable as corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent they own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. if the irs were to challenge successfully the operating partnership status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, hmc would cease to qualify as a reit and suffer other adverse consequences. we believe that the operating partnership qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. as a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. instead, each of its partners, 73 table of contents including hmc, is required to pay tax on its allocable share of the operating partnership income. no assurance can be provided, however, that the irs will not challenge its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating the operating partnership as a corporation for tax purposes, hmc would fail to meet the income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to reits and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a reit. if the operating partnership fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or hmc fails to qualify as a reit, either failure would cause an event of default under our credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under our outstanding debt securities. also, the failure of the operating partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including hmc. finally, the classification of the operating partnership as a corporation would cause hmc to recognize gain at least equal to our negative capital account, if any. as a reit, hmc is subject to limitations on its ownership of debt and equity securities. subject to certain exceptions a reit is generally prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer to the extent that the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets or the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities or more than 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. a reit is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. however, a reit may not own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 20% of the value of the reit total assets. our taxable reit subsidiaries are subject to special rules that may result in increased taxes. several internal revenue code provisions ensure that a taxable reit subsidiary is subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. for example, a taxable reit subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated reit. in addition, the reit has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between the reit and the taxable reit subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. hmc may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. the federal income tax provisions applicable to reits provide that any gain realized by a reit on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. we intend that we will hold the hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels as are consistent with our investment objectives. we cannot assure you, however, that the irs might not contend that one or more of these sales is subject to the 100% penalty tax. 74 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. the majority of our outstanding debt has a fixed interest rate. we use some derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks related to our borrowings. the table below provides information about our derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including interest rate swaps and debt obligations. for debt obligations, the table presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. weighted average variable rates are presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency. the interest rate swaps and caps that we have entered into are strictly to hedge interest rate risk and not for trading purposes. expected maturity date fair value 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total ($ in millions) liabilities debt: fixed rate $ 140 $ 873 $ 431 $ 754 $ 511 $ 2,558 $ 5,267 $ 5,658 average interest rate 7.4 % 7.1 % 6.9 % 6.8 % 7.1 % 7.3 % variable rate variable rate $ 88 $ $ 20 $ $ $ $ 108 $ 108 average interest rate 6.4 % 6.3 % 6.3 % % % % total debt(1) $ 5,375 $ 5,766 interest rate derivatives interest rate swaps fixed to variable $ $ 692 $ $ $ $ $ 692 $ (5 ) average pay rate 9.3 % 10.0 % % % % % average receive rate 9.4 % 9.3 % % % % % (1) excludes the fair market value of the interest rate swaps which totaled approximately $(5) million as of december 31, 2005. as of december 31, 2005, approximately 85.1% of our debt bears interest at fixed rates. this debt structure largely mitigates the impact of changes in interest rates. we have some financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including our credit facility. the interest rate on our credit facility is based on a spread over libor, ranging from 2.0% to 3.75%. there was $20 million outstanding on our credit facility at december 31, 2005. we expect the proportion of fixed rate debt in our capital structure to range from 70% to 85% of our total debt, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to achieve this result on terms acceptable to us. in furtherance of this objective, we have entered into three interest rate swaps effectively converting $692 million of fixed rate payments to floating rate payments based on a spread to libor. on december 20, 2001, we entered into a 5-year interest rate swap agreement, which was effective on january 15, 2002 and matures in january 2007, effectively converting our series i senior notes to floating rate debt. under the swap, we receive fixed-rate payments of 9.5% and pay floating-rate payments based on one-month libor plus 450 basis points on a $450 million notional amount, which is equal to the current amount 79 of outstanding series i senior notes. on august 21, 2003, we entered into two four-year interest rate swap agreements, which mature october 2007, effectively converting our series g senior notes to floating rate debt. under the swaps, we receive fixed-rate payments of 9.25% and we make floating-rate payments based on six-month libor plus 590 basis points on a $242 million notional amount, which is equal to the current amount of outstanding series g senior notes. we have designated the interest rate swaps as fair value hedges for both financial reporting and tax purposes and the amounts paid or received under the swap agreements will be recognized over the life of the agreement as an adjustment to interest expense. changes in the fair value of the swap and the series i senior notes and series g senior notes, respectively, are reflected in the balance sheet as offsetting changes and have no income statement effect. the fair value of the series i interest rate swap at december 31, 2005 and december 31, 2004 was $1 million and $18 million, respectively. the fair value of the series g interest rate swaps at december 31, 2005 and december 31, 2004 was $(6) million and $1 million, respectively. these amounts are included in the senior notes line item on our consolidated balance sheet. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt and the above swap agreements increase or decrease by 100 basis points, the change in interest expense would change future earnings and cash flows by approximately $8 million annually. exchange rate sensitivity as we have non-u.s. operations (specifically, the ownership of hotels in canada and mexico), currency exchange risk arises as a normal part of our business. to manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-u.s. hotels, where possible, we may enter into forward or option contracts. the foreign currency exchange agreements that we have entered into are strictly to hedge foreign currency risk and not for trading purposes. on august 30, 2001, our canadian subsidiaries entered into a mortgage loan pursuant to which they borrowed $96.6 million (denominated in u.s. dollars) at a variable rate of libor plus 2.75%. at that time, we entered into currency forward contracts to hedge the currency exposure of converting canadian dollars to u.s. dollars on a monthly basis to cover debt service payments, which were designated as cash flow hedges of the debt service payments, and the forward contracts were recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with offsetting changes recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. in december 2003, we entered into certain transactions which resulted in the forward contracts no longer qualifying as hedges. we recognized a loss of approximately $18 million in 2003, which was previously included in accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheet. accordingly, the change in fair value is recorded in our consolidated statement of operations each period. for 2005 and 2004, we recorded a gain of $2 million and a loss of $7 million, respectively, related to these contracts. in january 2005 and october 2005, we assigned the notional amounts of the foreign currency contracts of approximately $32 million and $19 million, respectively, to a third party for approximately $8 million and $10 million, respectively, which approximated the fair value of those contracts on the date of sale. after these sales, we have no outstanding notional amount under these contracts and no foreign currency exchange agreements. 80 forward-looking statements in this report on form 10-k we make some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements are included throughout this report on form 10-k and the information incorporated by reference herein, including in the section entitled risk factors and relate to, among other things, analyses and other information based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. these forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, predict, project, will, continue, and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. these forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by us in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: national and local economic and business conditions and changes in travel patterns that will affect demand for products and services at our hotels, the level of room rates and occupancy that can be achieved by such properties and the availability and terms of financing and our liquidity; changes in taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; our ability to maintain properties in a first-class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate; our ability to maintain good relationships with our property managers; our ability to acquire or develop additional properties and the risk that potential acquisitions or developments may not perform in accordance with expectations; our degree of leverage, which may affect our ability to obtain financing in the future; the reduction in our operating flexibility and our ability to pay dividends resulting from restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, including the risk of default that could occur, and in the terms of our preferred stock; the effect of terror alerts and potential terrorist activity on travel and our ability to recover fully under our existing insurance for terrorist acts and our ability to maintain adequate or full replacement cost all-risk property insurance on our properties; government approvals, actions and initiatives, including the need for compliance with environmental and safety requirements, and changes in laws and regulations or the interpretation thereof; the effects of tax legislative action; host ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for it to maintain reit status for federal income tax purposes, the ability of the operating partnership to satisfy the rules to maintain its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to maintain their status as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to operate effectively within the limitations imposed by these rules; the effect of any rating agency downgrades on the cost and availability of new debt financings; the relatively fixed nature of our property-level operating costs and expenses; and other factors discussed under the heading risk factors and in other filings with the sec. although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, any of these assumptions could prove to be inaccurate and the forward-looking 81 statement based on these assumptions could be incorrect and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed. our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent known and unknown risks and uncertainties. accordingly, our forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors described above and under the heading risk factors and in the information incorporated by reference herein. except as otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation to publicly release any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained in this annual report on form 10-k to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. 82risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2006 form 10-k and in our 2006 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as our forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify each such statement by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statements will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. 15 table of contents we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make or related subjects in our 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such risk factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. financial risks and risks of operation we depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. unlike regular c corporations, we must fund debt pay-downs or finance our growth largely with external sources of capital because we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (other than net capital gains) in order to qualify as a reit, including taxable income we recognize for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive corresponding cash. our ability to access the external capital we require could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including declining general market conditions, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, excessive cash distributions or decreases in the market price of host common stock. in addition, our ability to access additional capital may also be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, among other things, restricts our incurrence of debt and the payment of distributions. the occurrence of any of these above-mentioned factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us or at all and the failure to obtain necessary external capital could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future growth. we have substantial debt. as of december 31, 2006, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $5.9 billion. our substantial indebtedness has important consequences. it currently requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, distributions to our partners and other general purposes. additionally, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our debt or obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general business purposes on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all; or affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. because we must distribute most of our taxable income in order to maintain our qualification as a reit, we depend upon external sources of capital for future growth. if our cash flow and working capital were not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we would have to raise additional funds through: sales of our equity; the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by host lp; or the sale of our assets. 16 table of contents we cannot assure you that any of these sources of funds would be available to us or, if available, would be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient for us to meet our obligations or fulfill our business plan. our revenues and the value of our properties are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. the lodging industry experienced a downturn from 2001 to 2003, and operations generally declined during this period. the decline was attributed to a number of factors including a weak economy, the effect of terrorist attacks, terror alerts in the united states and the war in iraq, all of which changed the travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers. while our operations have improved over the past three years, we cannot provide assurance that changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers will not create difficulties for the industry over the long-term. any forecast we make regarding our results of operations may be affected and can change based on the following risks: changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; changes in business and leisure travel patterns; local market conditions such as an oversupply of hotel rooms or a reduction in lodging demand; the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to our competition; the performance of the managers of our hotels; changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and unionization of the labor force at our hotels. future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect us. previous terrorist attacks in the united states and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries over the past several years. the impact which terrorist attacks in the united states or elsewhere could have on our business in particular and the u.s. economy, the global economy and global financial markets in general is indeterminable. it is possible that such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and/or our results of operations and financial condition as a whole. our expenses may not decrease if our revenue decreases. many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the hotels. our expenses will also be affected by inflationary increases, and in the case of certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. our managers may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. any of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures could adversely affect the growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties. our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive on the hotels situated on the leased properties. as of february 23, 2007, 38 of our hotels are subject to third-party ground leases (encumbering all or a portion of the hotel). these ground leases generally require periodic increases in ground rent payments, which are often based on economic indicators such as the consumer price index. our ability to service our debt could be adversely affected to the extent that our revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. in addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would have to assume the ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price. 17 table of contents we do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. because federal income tax laws restrict reits and their subsidiaries from operating or managing a hotel, we do not operate or manage our hotels. instead, we lease substantially all of our hotels to subsidiaries which qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries under applicable reit laws, and our taxable reit subsidiaries retain third-party managers to operate our hotels pursuant to management agreements. our cash flow from the hotels may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. while our taxable reit subsidiaries monitor the hotel managers performance, we have limited specific recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. in addition, from time to time, we have had, and continue to have, differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. we generally resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. however, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own or have invested in, hotels that compete with our hotels, which may result in conflicts of interest. as a result, our hotel managers have in the past made and may in the future make decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interests. the terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, reducing operational flexibility and creating default risks. the documents governing the terms of our existing senior notes and our credit facility contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. these covenants will restrict, amongst other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: conduct acquisitions, mergers or consolidations unless the successor entity in such transaction assumes our indebtedness; incur additional debt in excess of certain thresholds and without satisfying certain financial metrics; create liens securing indebtedness, unless effective provision is made to secure our other indebtedness by such liens; sell assets without using the proceeds from such sales for certain permitted uses or to make an offer to repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness; make capital expenditures in excess of certain thresholds; raise capital; pay dividends without satisfying certain financial metrics; and conduct transactions with affiliates other than on an arms length basis and, in certain instances, without obtaining opinions as to the fairness of such transactions. in addition, certain covenants in the credit facility require us and our subsidiaries to meet financial performance tests. the restrictive covenants in the applicable indenture(s), the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. our failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. for a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial condition . 18 table of contents our ability to pay dividends may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness. we are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on our classes and series of capital stock. under the terms of host lp credit facility and senior notes indenture, distributions to host by host lp, upon which host depends in order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, are permitted only to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, host lp can satisfy certain financial covenant tests and meet other requirements. for example, between july 2002 and march 2004, host lp ability to make distributions was limited because our consolidated ebitda-to-interest coverage ratio as calculated under the indenture governing our senior notes (which measures the ratio of pro forma consolidated ebitda to pro forma consolidated interest expense) was below 2.0 to 1.0. during this period, host lp was only able to make distributions to host, and host was only able to pay dividends, to the extent that we had taxable income and were required to make distributions to maintain host status as a reit. while our ebitda-to-interest coverage ratio is currently above this requirement, a decline in our operations could once again limit the amount of distributions host lp could make, either because our ebitda-to-interest coverage ratio again falls below 2.0 to 1.0 or because we fail to meet other financial covenant tests in our credit facility or senior notes indenture. also, effective with the redemption of our series g senior notes in december 2006, host lp is able to make distributions to enable host to pay dividends on its preferred stock when our ebitda-to-interest coverage ratio is above 1.7 to 1.0. we intend, during any future period in which host lp is unable to make restricted payments under the indenture(s) and under similar restrictions under the credit facility, that host lp will continue its practice of distributing quarterly, based on our estimates of taxable income for any year, an amount of available cash sufficient to enable host to pay quarterly dividends on our preferred and common stock in an amount necessary to satisfy the requirements applicable to reits under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended. in the event that host lp makes distributions to host in amounts in excess of those necessary for us to maintain our status as a reit during a period when such distributions are restricted, host lp will be in default under the senior notes indenture. our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may also be limited or prohibited by the terms of our preferred stock. under the terms of our outstanding preferred stock, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock unless cumulative dividends have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for payment) on such class of preferred stock. the amount of aggregate dividends that accrue on our outstanding classes of preferred stock each quarter is approximately $2 million. in the event that we fail to pay the accrued dividends on our preferred stock for any reason, including because we are prevented from paying such dividends under the terms of our debt instruments (as discussed above), dividends will continue to accrue on all outstanding classes of our preferred stock and we will be prohibited from paying any dividends on our common stock until all such accrued but unpaid dividends on our preferred stock have been paid (or funds for such payment have been set aside). we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. although we do not directly employ or manage the labor force at our hotels, we are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. from time to time, hotels operations may be disrupted through strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. we may also incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events. additionally, hotels where our managers have collective bargaining agreements 19 table of contents with employees (approximately 20% of our current portfolio, by revenues) are more highly affected by labor force activities than others. in addition, the resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. because collective bargaining agreements are negotiated between the managers of our hotels and labor unions, we do not have the ability to control the outcome of these negotiations. foreclosure on our mortgage debt could adversely affect our business. as of february 23, 2007, 29 of our hotels and assets related thereto are subject to various mortgages in an aggregate amount of approximately $2.1 billion. although the debt is generally non-recourse to us, if these hotels do not produce adequate cash flow to service the debt secured by such mortgages, the mortgage lenders could foreclose on these assets. we may opt to allow such foreclosure rather than make the necessary mortgage payments with funds from other sources. however, host lp senior notes indenture and credit facility contain cross-default provisions, which, depending upon the amount of secured debt defaulted on, could cause a cross-default under both of these agreements. host lp credit facility, which contains the more restrictive cross default provision as compared to its senior notes indenture, provides that it is a credit facility default in the event host lp defaults on non-recourse secured indebtedness in excess of 1% of its total assets (using undepreciated real estate values) or defaults on other indebtedness in excess of $50 million. for this and other reasons, permitting a foreclosure could adversely affect our long-term business prospects. our mortgage debt contains provisions that may reduce our liquidity. certain of our mortgage debt requires that, to the extent cash flow from the hotels which secure such debt drops below stated levels, we escrow cash flow after the payment of debt service until operations improve above the stated levels. in some cases, the escrowed amount may be applied to the outstanding balance of the mortgage debt. when such provisions are triggered, there can be no assurance that the affected properties will achieve the minimum cash flow levels required to trigger a release of any escrowed funds. the amounts required to be escrowed may be material and may negatively affect our liquidity by limiting our access to cash flow after debt service from these mortgaged properties. rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. both our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by moody investors service, standard &amp; poor and fitch ratings. these independent rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred stock at any time. such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. our management agreements could impair the sale or financing of our hotels. under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets specified other conditions. our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager consent. if, in these circumstances, the manager does not consent, we may be precluded from taking actions in our best interest without breaching the applicable management agreement. the acquisition contracts relating to some hotels limit our ability to sell or refinance those hotels. for reasons relating to federal and state income tax considerations of the former and current owners of five hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods depending on the hotel. we have also agreed not to sell more than 50% of the original allocated value attributable to a portfolio of 11 additional hotels, or to take other actions that would result in the recognition and allocation of gain to the former owners of such hotels for federal and state income tax purposes prior to january 1, 2009. as a result, even if it were in our best interests to sell these hotels or repay or otherwise 20 table of contents reduce the level of the mortgage debt on such hotels, it may be difficult or costly to do so during their respective lock-out periods. in specified circumstances, we may agree to similar restrictions in connection with future hotel acquisitions. we may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are illiquid. real estate properties generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. the inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service our debt. in addition, there are limitations under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. applicable reit laws may restrict certain business activities. as a reit we are subject to various restrictions on our income, assets and activities. business activities that could be impacted by applicable reit laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units. due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will conduct certain business activities, including those mentioned above, in one or more of our taxable reit subsidiaries. our taxable reit subsidiaries are taxable as regular c corporations and are subject to federal, state, and, if applicable, local and foreign taxation on their taxable income at applicable corporate income tax rates. in addition, under reit laws, the aggregate value of all of a reit taxable reit subsidiaries may not exceed 20% of the value of all of the reit assets. we depend on our key personnel. our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. none of our key personnel have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. we cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. while we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. litigation judgments or settlements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. we are involved in various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. we are vigorously defending each of these claims. currently, none of these claims seeks relief that, if granted, would have a significant effect on our financial condition or results of operations. as an owner of hotel properties, however, we could become the subject of claims by the operators of our hotels, individuals or companies who use our hotels, our investors, or regulating entities, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. as part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire luxury and upper upscale hotel properties. we may acquire properties through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other reits or similar real estate entities. we anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from host equity offerings, issuance of limited partnership interests in host lp, advances under our credit facility, and the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness. we may, from time to time, be in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from the acquisitions that we consummate. our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities. 21 table of contents we may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. we have made a significant investment in a european joint venture, which owns seven hotels in europe. we may, from time to time, invest as a co-venturer in other entities holding hotel properties instead of purchasing hotel properties directly. co-venturers often share control over the operation of a joint venture. actions by a co-venturer could subject the assets to additional risk, including: our co-venturer in an investment might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint venture s, interests or goals; our co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; or our co-venturer could go bankrupt, leaving us liable for such co-venturer share of joint venture liabilities. although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture to permit our objectives to be achieved, it might not be able to take action without the approval of its joint venture partners. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. we believe that our properties are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws. unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. these laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. compliance with other government regulations can be costly. our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including title iii of the americans with disabilities act, building codes and regulations pertaining to fire safety. compliance with those laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. these regulations may be changed from time to time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some potential losses are not covered by insurance. we carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. these policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar type properties. generally, our all-risk property policies provide coverage that is available on a per occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, has an overall limit, as well as various sub-limits, on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. sub-limits exist for certain types of claims such as service interruption, abatement, earthquakes, expediting costs or landscaping replacement, and 22 table of contents the dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. our property policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case of one of our hotels where the manager provides this coverage, any such claims will also be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the managers program for the same purpose. therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, or, in the case of hotels where coverage is provided by the management company, affects hotels owned by others, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached and each affected hotel may only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. we may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive sufficient coverage for risks that affect multiple properties such as earthquakes or certain types of terrorism. in addition, there are other risks such as war, certain forms of terrorism such as nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological (nbcr) terrorism and some environmental hazards that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or may be too expensive to justify insuring against. host has created a wholly-owned captive insurance company which provides coverage to the company for losses due to nbcr attacks. the terrorism risk insurance extension act (triea) allows our captive insurer to apply to the u.s. treasury for reimbursement of the claims. this does not insure that we will be able to recover any of our ncbr losses. we may also encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all, or a portion of, the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. in that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. we may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. we obtain terrorism insurance as part of our all-risk property insurance program, as well as our general liability and directors and officers coverages. however, as noted above, our all-risk policies have limitations such as per occurrence limits and sublimits which might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. also, all-risk insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the triea for certified acts of terrorism namely those which are committed on behalf of non-united states persons or interests. furthermore, we do not have full replacement coverage at all of our properties for acts of terrorism committed on behalf of united states persons or interests ( noncertified events) as our coverage for such incidents is subject to sublimits and/or annual aggregate limits. in addition, property damage related to war and to nuclear, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. while triea will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, biological and chemical perils, triea does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. host has created a wholly-owned captive insurance company that provides a policy of nbcr coverage to us, and has the same ability to apply to the us treasury for reimbursement, as provided for in tria (now triea), which is subject to the same deductibles and co-insurance obligations as other insurance companies. this applies to property insurance only, and not to general liability or directors and officers insurance. triea terminates on december 31, 2007, and there is no guarantee that the terrorism coverage that it mandates will be readily available or affordable thereafter. as a result of the above, there remains considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks that impact our properties. 23 table of contents the expansion of our business into new markets outside of the united states in which we are not currently involved will expose us to the general economic conditions of those markets. we may have difficulty managing our expansion into new geographic markets where we have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. as a result of the completion of the starwood transactions, we have ownership interest in hotels in seven foreign countries. the revenues from consolidated foreign hotels are approximately 3% of our consolidated revenues. there are risks inherent in conducting business internationally. these include: employment laws and practices in foreign countries; tax laws in foreign countries, which may provide for tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy; the structure pursuant to which starwood operates certain of the acquired european hotels; adverse changes in the political and economic climate in the foreign countries; and changes in interest rates and/or the currency exchange rates, including regulations regarding the incurrence of debt. any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to obtain all of the intended benefits. if we do not effectively manage our geographic expansion and successfully integrate the foreign hotels into our organization, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected and the value of host common stock may decline. we may fail to realize the revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from the starwood transactions, which could affect our financial results. our financial results may be affected by our ability to achieve the expected benefits from the starwood transactions. achieving these benefits will depend, in large part, upon the future operation of the acquired hotels meeting our expectation. the operation of the acquired hotels will be affected by various factors, including, changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; changes in business and leisure travel patterns, local market conditions such as an oversupply of hotel rooms or a reduction in lodging demand; the attractiveness of such hotels to consumers relative to our competition; the performance of starwood as a manager of such hotels; changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors. there can be no assurance that the acquired hotels will meet our expectations for their performance. moreover, achieving the benefits of the starwood transactions will depend in part upon meeting the challenges inherent in successfully integrating the portfolio of acquired hotels. there can be no assurance that such challenges will be met and that such diversion will not negatively impact our operations. we may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to the business to be acquired from starwood. assets and entities that we acquired from starwood may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against starwood. in general, the representations and warranties provided by starwood under the transaction agreement do not survive the closing of the transactions. while starwood is required to indemnify us with respect to breaches of certain representations and warranties that do survive the closing, such indemnification is limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible and an aggregate cap on losses. as a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by starwood of its representations and warranties. the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with acquired hotels and entities may exceed our expectations, plus we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. 24 table of contents finally, the indemnification agreement between us and starwood provides that starwood will retain certain specified liabilities relating to the assets and entities acquired by us. while starwood is contractually obligated to pay all losses and other expenses relating to such retained liabilities without regard to survival limitations, materiality thresholds, the deductible or cap on losses, there can be no guarantee that this arrangement will not require us to incur losses or other expenses as well. exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of the expansion of host international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect its results of operations and financial position. host expects to generate an increasing portion of its revenue and its expenses in such foreign currencies as the euro, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the british pound, the polish zloty and the chilean peso. although host may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and other foreign currencies relative to its debt or receivable obligations, these hedging transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. in addition, to the extent that host is unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on host results of operations and financial condition. additionally, because host consolidated financial results are reported in us dollars, if host generates revenues or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into us dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those revenues or earnings. risks of ownership of host common stock there are limitations on the acquisition of host common stock and changes in control. host charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of host lp, host stockholder rights plan and the maryland general corporation law contain a number of provisions, the exercise of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or host lp unit holders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: restrictions on ownership and transfer of host stock. to maintain host qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of host outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned in the last half of the taxable year, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the code to include some entities. because such ownership could jeopardize host qualification as a reit, a person cannot own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of an interest in a host lessee, nor can a host lessee of any partnership in which host is a partner own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of host shares, in each case unless exempted by host board of directors. host charter prohibits ownership, directly or by virtue of the attribution provisions of the code, by any person or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of shares of host outstanding common stock, preferred stock or any other stock, each considered as a separate class or series for this purpose. together, these limitations are referred to as the ownership limit. stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the person who acquired the stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares of stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the stock or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares of host stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of host stock in excess of the ownership limit. these restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if host board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a reit. 25 table of contents removal of board of directors. host charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast for the election of directors. vacancies on host board of directors may be filled by the concurring vote of a majority of the remaining directors (except that a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors must be filled by a majority vote of the entire board of directors) and, in the case of a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director by the stockholders, by at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. host charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that we have authority to issue is 800,000,000, initially consisting of 750,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. host board of directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock, including common stock into preferred stock or vice versa, and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued. because the board of directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of stock without a stockholder vote, host board of directors may give the holders of any class or series of stock preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock. consent rights of the limited partners. under the partnership agreement of host lp, we generally will be able to merge or consolidate with another entity with the consent of partners holding limited partner ownership interests that are more than 50% of the aggregate ownership interests of the outstanding limited partnership interests entitled to vote on the merger or consolidation, including any limited partnership interests held by us, as long as the holders of limited partnership interests either receive or have the right to receive the same consideration as host stockholders. host, as holder of a majority of the limited partnership interests of host lp, would be able to control the vote. under host charter, holders of at least two-thirds of host outstanding shares of common stock generally must approve a merger or consolidation. maryland business combination law. under the maryland general corporation law, specified business combinations, including specified issuances of equity securities, between a maryland corporation and any person who owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation then outstanding shares, or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who at any time during the two year period prior to the date in question owned 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the corporation (each, an interested stockholder ), or an affiliate of the interested stockholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. thereafter, any of these specified business combinations must be approved by 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of outstanding voting shares and by two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of voting shares other than voting shares held by an interested stockholder unless, among other conditions, the corporation common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the maryland general corporation law, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder. host is subject to the maryland business combination statute. maryland control share acquisition law. under the maryland general corporation law, control shares acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. control shares are voting shares which, if aggregated with all other voting shares previously acquired by the acquiror or over which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (1) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (2) one-third or more but less than a majority or (3) a majority or more of the voting power. control shares do not 26 table of contents include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. a control share acquisition means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specified exceptions. host is subject to these control share provisions of maryland law. merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of host assets. pursuant to host charter, subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer host assets within the meaning of the maryland general corporation law if approved (1) by host board of directors in the manner provided in the maryland general corporation law and (2) by host stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger of us with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing host form of organization from a corporation to a trust requires only the approval of host stockholders holding a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the merger. under the maryland general corporation law, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange is only required to be approved by a maryland corporation by its board of directors if the corporation is the successor. host voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. certain charter and bylaw amendments. host charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transferability of host stock, fixing the size of the board of directors within the range set forth in the charter, removal of directors and the filling of vacancies, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by host stockholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. any amendments of these provisions of the charter (setting forth the necessary approval requirements) also would require action of the board of directors and the approval by stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. as permitted under the maryland general corporation law, host bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend host bylaws. these provisions may make it more difficult to amend host charter and bylaws to alter the provisions described herein that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control or the acquisition of host common stock, without the approval of the board of directors. stockholder rights plan. we adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, host stockholders, other than an acquiring person, will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created class or series of junior preferred stock, subject to host ownership limits described above. the preferred stock purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 20% or more of host outstanding shares of common stock or (2) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 20% or more of host outstanding common stock. the exercise of the preferred share purchase rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by host board of directors. shares of host common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price. sales of a substantial number of shares of host common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for host common stock. in addition, holders of units of limited partnership interest in host lp, whose op units may be redeemed, at host election, in exchange for common stock, will be able to sell those shares freely, unless the person is our affiliate and resale of the affiliate shares is not covered by an effective registration statement. further, a substantial number of shares of host common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans, including shares of common stock reserved for options, or pursuant to securities we may issue that are convertible into shares of host common stock or securities (other than op units) that host lp has issued that are 27 table of contents exchangeable for shares of our common stock. as of february 23, 2007, there are approximately 18.8 million op units outstanding that are redeemable and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.25% exchangeable senior debentures of host lp exchangeable under certain conditions for shares of host common stock at an exchange price equivalent to $17.22 per share for a total of approximately 29 million shares (subject to adjustment for various reasons, including as a result of the payment of dividends to common stockholders). moreover, additional shares of common stock issued by host would be available in the future for sale in the public markets. we can make no prediction about the effect that future sales of common stock would have on the market price of host common stock. our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of host common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit equity securities is based primarily upon the market perception of the reit growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets. for that reason, shares of host common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of host common stock. our failure to meet the market expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of host common stock. market interest rates may affect the price of shares of host common stock. we believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a reit is the dividend rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher dividend rate. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of host shares to decrease. federal income tax risks to qualify as a reit, host and each of our subsidiary reits are required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain, regardless of available cash or outstanding obligations. to continue to qualify as a reit, we are required to distribute to our stockholders with respect to each year at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding net capital gain. to the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income and net capital gain for the taxable year, we will be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. in addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by us with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income and 95% of our net capital gain for that year and any undistributed taxable income from prior years less excess distributions from prior years. we intend to make distributions, subject to the availability of cash and in compliance with any debt covenants, to our stockholders to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from host lp and its subsidiaries. however, there are differences in timing between our recognition of taxable income and our receipt of cash available for distribution due to, among other things, the seasonality of the lodging industry and the fact that some taxable income will be phantom income, which is taxable income that is not matched by corresponding cash flow. due to some transactions entered into in years prior to host conversion to a reit, host could recognize substantial amounts of phantom income. it is possible that these differences between taxable income and the receipt of related cash could require us to borrow funds or to issue additional equity to enable host to meet the distribution requirement and, therefore, to maintain our reit status, and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax. in addition, because the reit distribution requirement prevents host from retaining earnings, we will generally be required to refinance debt at its maturity with additional debt or equity. it is possible that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would not be sufficient to meet host distribution and tax obligations. 28 table of contents as a result of the starwood transactions, host owns, through host lp, 100% of the outstanding common stock (and a portion of the outstanding preferred stock) of three entities that will elect to be treated as reits. each of these subsidiary reits of host will be subject to the same requirements that host must satisfy in order to qualify as a reit, including the distribution requirements described above. adverse tax consequences would apply if host or any of our subsidiary reits failed to qualify as a reit. we believe that host has been organized and has operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a reit under the code, commencing with our taxable year beginning january 1, 1999, and host currently intends to continue to operate as a reit during future years. in addition, after the starwood transactions, host owns, through host lp, three entities that will elect to be treated as reits. as the requirements for qualification and taxation as a reit are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a reit are limited, no assurance can be provided that host currently qualifies as a reit or will continue to qualify as a reit or that each of host subsidiary reits qualify as a reit. if any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that host would fail to qualify as a reit unless we (or the subsidiary reit) could avail ourselves (itself) of certain relief provisions. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to an entity qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of its reit qualification. if host or any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, and any available relief provisions did not apply, the non-qualifying reit would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. moreover, unless entitled to statutory relief, the non-qualifying reit could not qualify as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which reit qualification is lost. any determination that host or one of our subsidiary reits does not qualify as a reit would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and could reduce the value of our common stock materially. the additional tax liability of host or the subsidiary reit for the year, or years, in which the relevant entity did not qualify as a reit would reduce its net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to stockholders. furthermore, the non-qualifying entity would no longer be required to make any distributions to stockholders as a condition to reit qualification and all of its distributions to stockholders would be taxable as regular c corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. this means, if host were to fail to qualify as a reit, that host stockholders currently taxed as individuals would be taxed on those dividends at capital gain rates and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case, to applicable limitations under the code. host failure to qualify as a reit also would cause an event of default under host lp credit facility that could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due under the credit facility, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under host lp outstanding debt securities. if our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, host and each of our subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. to qualify as a reit, host must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, like rent. for the rent paid pursuant to the leases, which currently constitutes substantially all of host and each of our subsidiary reits gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. we believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will agree with this view. if the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, neither host nor any of our subsidiary reits would be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to reits and each would most likely lose its reit status. 29 table of contents if our affiliated lessees fail to qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries, host and each of our subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. rent paid by a lessee that is a related party tenant of host will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to reits. we lease substantially all of our hotels to our subsidiary that is taxable as a regular c corporation and that has elected to be treated as a taxable reit subsidiary with respect to host. each of the hotels acquired from starwood are also leased to either a taxable reit subsidiary of host or a taxable reit subsidiary of a subsidiary reit. so long as any affiliated lessee qualifies as a taxable reit subsidiary, it will not be treated as a related party tenant. we believe that our affiliated lessees have qualified and will continue to qualify, and that the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits will qualify, to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will not challenge the status of a taxable reit subsidiary for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in disqualifying any of our affiliated lessees (including the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits) from treatment as a taxable reit subsidiary, it is possible that host or a subsidiary reit would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to reits and substantially all of its income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. if this occurred, host and our subsidiary reits would likely lose their reit status. despite the reit status of host and our subsidiary reits, we remain subject to various taxes. host or one of its subsidiary reits will be required to pay federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate upon its share of any built-in gain recognized as a result of any sale before the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period of assets, including certain hotels acquired as part of host conversion to a reit or from starwood and its affiliates as part of the acquisition of the starwood portfolio. the total amount of gain on which host would be subject to corporate income tax if these built-in gain assets were sold in a taxable transaction prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period would be material to us. in addition, we expect that we could recognize other substantial deferred tax liabilities in the future without any corresponding receipt of cash. notwithstanding their status as a reit, host and our subsidiaries (including our subsidiary reits) will be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on their income and property. for example, host and our subsidiary reits will pay tax on certain types of income that is not distributed and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable reit subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm length basis. moreover, the taxable reit subsidiaries of host and our subsidiary reits are taxable as regular c corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent they own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. host lp is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by host. if the irs were to challenge successfully host lp status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, host would cease to qualify as a reit and suffer other adverse consequences. we believe that host lp qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. as a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. instead, each of its partners, including host, is required to pay tax on such partner allocable share of its income. no assurance can be provided, however, that the irs will not challenge host lp status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating host lp as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, host would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to reits and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a reit. if host lp fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or host fails to qualify as a reit, either failure would cause an event of default under host lp credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under host lp outstanding debt securities. also, the 30 table of contents failure of host lp to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal, state and foreign corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including host. as a reit, each of host and our subsidiary reits is subject to limitations on its ownership of debt and equity securities. subject to certain exceptions, a reit is generally prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer to the extent that the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets or the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities or more than 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. a reit is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. however, a reit may not own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 20% of the value of the reit total assets. host or our subsidiary reits may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. the federal income tax provisions applicable to reits provide that any gain realized by a reit on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. we intend that we will hold the hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels as are consistent with our investment objectives. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% penalty tax. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. the majority of our outstanding debt has a fixed interest rate. we use some derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks related to our borrowings. the table below provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. the table presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date total fair value 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter ($ in millions) liabilities debt: fixed rate $ 180 $ 300 $ 890 $ 515 $ 132 $ 3,523 $ 5,540 $ 5,865 average interest rate 6.7 % 6.7 % 6.6 % 6.8 % 7.0 % 7.0 % variable rate variable rate $ 88 $ 250 $ $ $ $ $ 338 $ 338 average interest rate 7.2 % 7.4 % % % % % total debt $ 5,878 $ 6,203 as of december 31, 2006, approximately 94% of our debt bears interest at fixed rates. this debt structure largely mitigates the impact of changes in interest rates. our mortgage on the jw marriott, washington, d.c. and our credit facility are sensitive to changes in interest rates. the interest rate on our credit facility is based on a spread over libor, ranging from 2% to 3%. there was $250 million outstanding on our credit facility at december 31, 2006, $75 million of which was repaid in january 2007. in august 2006, we exercised our option to extend the $88 million mortgage on the jw marriott, washington, d.c., for one year through september 2007. additionally, we purchased an interest rate cap that caps the floating interest rate of the loan at 8.1% through september 2007. the cap represents a derivative that is marked to market each period and the gains and losses from changes in the market value of the cap are recorded in gain (loss) on foreign currency and derivative contracts. the fair value of the interest rate cap was immaterial at december 31, 2006. during the fourth quarter of 2006, we terminated our interest rate swap agreements we had entered into in conjunction with our series g and i senior notes. under the agreements, we received fixed rate payments and paid floating rate payments. we designated the interest rate swaps as fair value hedges for both financial reporting and tax purposes and the amounts paid or received under the swap agreements were recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense. in connection with the redemption of the series g and series i senior notes, we terminated the related interest rate swap agreements and recorded losses on the termination of the related debt instrument which has been included in interest expense. the swaps were terminated at a cost equivalent to their fair value at the respective termination dates, or approximately $1 million for the series i senior notes swap on december 4, 2006 and approximately $3 million for the series g senior notes swaps on december 29, 2006. the fair values of the series g interest rate swap and the series i interest rate swaps were $(6) million and $1 million, respectively, at december 31, 2005. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increase or decrease by 100 basis points, the change in interest expense would change future earnings and cash flows by approximately $3 million on an annual basis. 75 table of contents exchange rate sensitivity as we have non-u.s. operations (specifically, the ownership of hotels in canada, mexico, chile and our european joint venture), currency exchange risk arises as a normal part of our business. to manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-u.s. hotels, where possible, we may enter into forward or option contracts. the foreign currency exchange agreements that we have entered into in the past were strictly to hedge foreign currency risk and not for trading purposes. as of december 31, 2006, we have no outstanding foreign currency contracts. 76 table of contentsrisk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward looking statements our disclosure and analysis in this 2007 form 10-k and in our 2007 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as our forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify each such statement by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. 16 we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statements will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make or related subjects in our 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such risk factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. financial risks and risks of operation we depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. unlike regular c corporations, we must finance our growth and fund debt repayments largely with external sources of capital because we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (other than net capital gain) in order to qualify as a reit, including taxable income we recognize for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive corresponding cash. our ability to access the external capital we require could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including declining general market conditions, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, excessive cash distributions or decreases in the market price of host common stock. in addition, our ability to access additional capital may also be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, under certain circumstances, restricts our incurrence of debt and the payment of distributions. the occurrence of any of these above-mentioned factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us or at all and the failure to obtain necessary external capital could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future growth. we have substantial debt. as of december 31, 2007, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $5.6 billion. our substantial indebtedness has important consequences. it currently requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, distributions to our partners and other general purposes. additionally, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our debt or obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general business purposes on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all; or affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. 17 because we must distribute 90% of our taxable income (other than net capital gain) in order to maintain our qualification as a reit, we depend upon external sources of capital for future growth. if our cash flow and working capital were not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we would have to raise additional funds through: sales of our equity; the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by host lp; or the sale of our assets. we cannot make any assurances to you that any of these sources of funds would be available to us or, if available, would be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient for us to meet our obligations or fulfill our business plan. our revenues and the value of our properties are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. the lodging industry is subject to changes in travel patterns of business and leisure travelers, both of which are affected by a number of factors including the strength of the economy, the effect of terrorist attacks and terror alerts in the united states and internationally as well as other geopolitical disturbances. while our operations have improved over the past four years, changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results. our results of operations, and any forecast we make, may be affected and can change based on the following risks: changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate; changes in business and leisure travel patterns; local market conditions such as an oversupply of hotel rooms or a reduction in lodging demand; the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to our competition; the performance of the managers of our hotels; changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; unionization of the labor force at our hotels; and declines in liquidity in the credit markets and access to capital the terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, reducing operational flexibility and creating default risks. the documents governing the terms of our existing senior notes and our credit facility contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. these covenants will restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: conduct acquisitions, mergers or consolidations unless the successor entity in such transaction assumes our indebtedness; incur additional debt in excess of certain thresholds and without satisfying certain financial metrics; create liens securing indebtedness, unless effective provision is made to secure our other indebtedness by such liens; sell assets without using the proceeds from such sales for certain permitted uses or to make an offer to repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness; make capital expenditures in excess of certain thresholds; raise capital; 18 pay dividends without satisfying certain financial metrics; and conduct transactions with affiliates other than on an arms length basis and, in certain instances, without obtaining opinions as to the fairness of such transactions. in addition, certain covenants in the credit facility require us and our subsidiaries to meet financial performance tests. if we fail to meet such tests, the restrictive covenants in the applicable indenture(s), the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. our failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. for a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial condition . our ability to pay dividends may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness. we are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on our classes and series of capital stock. under the terms of host lp credit facility and senior notes indenture, distributions to host by host lp, upon which host depends in order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, are permitted only to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, host lp can satisfy certain financial covenant tests (concerning leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest coverage) and meet other requirements. foreclosure on our mortgage debt could adversely affect our business. as of december 31, 2007, 16 of our hotels and assets related thereto are subject to mortgages in an aggregate amount of approximately $1.4 billion. although the debt is generally non-recourse to us, if these hotels do not produce adequate cash flow to service the debt secured by such mortgages, the mortgage lenders could foreclose on these assets. we may opt to allow such foreclosure to occur rather than make the necessary mortgage payments with funds from other sources. however, host lp senior notes indenture and credit facility contain cross-default provisions, which, depending upon the amount of secured debt of which is defaulted, could cause a cross-default under both of these agreements. host lp credit facility, which contains a more restrictive cross-default provision than the senior notes indenture, provides that a credit facility default occurs in the event host lp defaults on non-recourse secured indebtedness in excess of 1% of its total assets (using undepreciated real estate values) or defaults on other indebtedness in excess of $50 million. for this and other reasons, permitting a foreclosure could adversely affect our long-term business prospects. an increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on our credit facility and any variable rate debt we incur and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. under our revolving credit facility, interest payments are based on floating rates. to the extent we draw on the credit facility, an increase in interest rates will reduce our cash flow available for other corporate purposes including investment in our portfolio. further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures and increase interest costs on any debt that is refinanced. we may from time to time enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts. while these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of assets as part of our business strategy. 19 rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. both our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by moody investors service, standard &amp; poor and fitch ratings. these independent rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred stock at any time. such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. the acquisition contracts relating to some hotels limit our ability to sell or refinance those hotels. for reasons relating to federal and state income tax considerations of the former and current owners of five hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods depending on the hotel. most of these agreements will expire between 2008 and 2010. we have also agreed not to sell more than 50% of the original allocated value attributable to a portfolio of 11 additional hotels, or to take other actions that would result in the recognition and allocation of gain to the former owners of such hotels for federal and state income tax purposes prior to january 1, 2009. as a result, even if it were in our best interests to sell these hotels or repay or otherwise reduce the level of the mortgage debt on such hotels, it may be difficult or costly to do so during their respective lock-out periods. in specified circumstances, we may agree to similar restrictions in connection with future hotel acquisitions. our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. as part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire luxury and upper upscale hotel properties. we may acquire properties through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other reits or similar real estate entities. we anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from host equity offerings, issuance of limited partnership interests of host lp, advances under our credit facility, the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness and proceeds from the sales of assets. recent declines in credit markets may limit the ability of purchasers to finance hotels and adversely affect our disposition strategy and our ability to use proceeds to finance acquisitions. we may, from time to time, be in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from the acquisitions that we consummate. our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities. we may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. we have made a significant investment in a european joint venture, which owns ten hotels in europe. we may, from time to time, invest as a co-venturer in other entities holding hotel properties instead of purchasing hotel properties directly. co-venturers often share control over the operation of a joint venture. actions by a co-venturer could subject the assets to additional risk as a result of any of the following circumstances: our co-venturer in an investment might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint venture s, interests or goals; or our co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. 20 the expansion of our business into new markets outside of the united states will expose us to risks relating to owning hotels in those international markets. part of our business strategy is to expand our presence internationally through joint ventures. we may have difficulty managing our expansion into new geographic markets where we have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area, or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures and regulations. through the european joint venture, we have ownership interests in ten hotels in five foreign countries. in addition, we also own seven other hotels located outside the united states. there are risks inherent in conducting business internationally, which include: employment laws and practices; tax laws which may provide for rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to withholding requirements or other restrictions; compliance with and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy; the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing and changes in the availability, cost and terms of such financing; adverse changes in local, political, economic and market conditions; the potential for uninsured casualty and other losses; changes in interest rates and/or the currency exchange rates, including regulations regarding the incurrence of debts; and difficulties in complying with u.s. rules governing reits while operating internationally. any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to obtain all of the intended benefits of our joint ventures. if we do not effectively manage our geographic expansion and successfully integrate the foreign hotels into our organization, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected and the value of host common stock may decline. exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of the expansion of host international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect its results of operations and financial position. host expects to generate an increasing portion of its revenue and its expenses in such foreign currencies as the euro, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the british pound, the polish zloty and the chilean peso. although host may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and other foreign currencies, these hedging transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. in addition, to the extent that host is unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on host results of operations and financial condition. additionally, because host consolidated financial results are reported in us dollars, if host generates revenues or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into us dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those revenues or earnings. we do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. since federal income tax laws restrict reits and their subsidiaries from operating or managing a hotel, we do not operate or manage our hotels. instead, we lease substantially all of our hotels to subsidiaries which qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries under applicable reit laws, and our taxable reit subsidiaries retain third-party managers to operate our hotels pursuant to management agreements. our cash flow from the hotels may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to 21 maintain a quality brand name. while our taxable reit subsidiaries monitor the hotel managers performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. in addition, from time to time, we have had, and continue to have, differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. we generally resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. however, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own or have invested in, hotels that compete with our hotels, which may result in conflicts of interest. as a result, our hotel managers have in the past made and may in the future make decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interests. we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. although we do not directly employ or manage the labor force at our hotels, we are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. from time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted through strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. we may also incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events. additionally, hotels where our managers have collective bargaining agreements with employees (approximately 21% of our current portfolio, by revenues) are more highly affected by labor force activities than others. in addition, the resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. furthermore, labor agreements may limit the ability of our managers to reduce the size of hotel workforces during an economic downturn because collective bargaining agreements are negotiated between the managers of our hotels and labor unions. we do not have the ability to control the outcome of these negotiations. our management agreements could impair the sale or financing of our hotels. under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer our hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets specified other conditions. our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager consent. if the manager does not consent to such sale or financing, we may be precluded from taking actions in our best interest without breaching the applicable management agreement. our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and potentially significant capital expenditures to remain competitive in the marketplace, maintain brand standards or to comply with applicable laws or regulations. the timing and costs of such renovations or improvements may result in reduced operating performance during construction and may not improve the return on these investments. in addition to capital expenditures required by our loan agreements or agreements with our hotel managers, we will need to make capital expenditures to remain competitive with other hotels, to maintain the economic value of our hotels and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. the timing of these improvements can affect hotel performance particularly if the improvements require closures of a significant number of rooms or the closure of other features of the hotels such as ballrooms, meeting space and restaurants. these capital improvements reduce the availability of cash for other purposes and are subject to cost overruns and delays. in addition, because we depend on external sources of capital, we may not have the necessary funds to invest and if we fail to maintain our properties in accordance with brand standards set by our managers, the manager may terminate the management agreement. moreover, we may not realize a significant, or any, improvement in the performance of the hotels in which we make these investments. 22 our expenses may not decrease if our revenue decreases. many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the hotels. our expenses will also be affected by inflationary increases, and certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. our managers may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. any of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures could adversely affect the growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties. our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive on the hotels situated on the leased properties. as of december 31, 2007, 37 of our hotels are subject to third-party ground leases (encumbering all or a portion of the hotel). these ground leases generally require periodic increases in ground rent payments, which are often based on economic indicators such as the consumer price index. our ability to pay ground rental could be adversely affected to the extent that our revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. in addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would have to assume the ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price. we may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are inherently illiquid. real estate properties generally cannot be sold quickly and, accordingly, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. the inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service our debt. in addition, there are limitations under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. applicable reit laws may restrict certain business activities. as a reit we are subject to various restrictions on our income, assets and activities. business activities that could be impacted by applicable reit laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units. due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will conduct certain business activities, including those mentioned above, in one or more of our taxable reit subsidiaries. our taxable reit subsidiaries are taxable as regular c corporations and are subject to federal, state, and, if applicable, local and foreign taxation on their taxable income at applicable corporate income tax rates. in addition, under reit laws, the aggregate value of assets held by a reit taxable reit subsidiaries may not exceed 20% of the value of all of the reit assets. we depend on our key personnel. our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. none of our key personnel have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. we cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. while we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect us. previous terrorist attacks in the united states and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries over the past several years. the impact that terrorist attacks in the united states or elsewhere could have on domestic and international markets and our business in particular is indeterminable. 23 it is possible that such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and/or our results of operations and financial condition as a whole. we may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. we obtain terrorism insurance as part of our all-risk property insurance program, as well as our general liability and directors and officers coverages. however, our all-risk policies have limitations such as per occurrence limits and sublimits which might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. also, all-risk insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act (tripra) effective december 26, 2007. tripra replaced the terrorism risk insurance extension act (triea) which was set to expire at the end of 2007. tripra provides the same coverage as its predecessor, with one major improvement; the definition of a certified claim (a claim that triggers coverage under the program). triea defined certified acts of terrorism as one which is committed on behalf of non-united states persons or interests, leaving uncovered any terroristic act committed by united states persons or interests; tripra eliminates this distinction and this coverage gap. property damage related to war and to nuclear, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. while tripra will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, biological and chemical perils, tripra does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. host has created a wholly-owned captive insurance company that provides a policy of nuclear, biological chemical or radiological (nbcr) coverage to us, and has the same ability to apply to the us treasury for reimbursement, as provided for in tripra, which is subject to the same deductibles and co-insurance obligations as other insurance companies. this applies to property insurance only, and not to general liability or directors and officers insurance, and there are no assurances that we will be able to recover any or all of our ncbr losses under this program. some potential losses are not covered by insurance. we, or our hotel managers, carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. these policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar type properties. generally, our all-risk property policies provide coverage that is available on a per occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, has an overall limit, as well as various sub-limits, on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. sub-limits exist for certain types of claims such as service interruption, abatement, expediting costs, landscaping replacement and natural disasters such as earthquakes and hurricanes and the dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. in this regard, hotels in certain of our markets, including california and florida have in the past and continue to be particularly susceptible to damage from earthquakes and hurricanes. recovery under the applicable policies, however, is subject to substantial deductibles and complex calculations of lost business income. there is no assurance that this insurance, where maintained, will fully fund the re-building or restoration of a hotel impacted by an earthquake, hurricane or other natural disasters, or the income lost as a result of the damage. our property policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case of one of our hotels where the manager provides this coverage, any such claims will also be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the managers program for the same purpose. therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, or, in the case of hotels where coverage is provided by the management company, affects hotels owned by others, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached and each affected hotel may only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits 24 available. we may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive complete coverage for risks that affect multiple properties such as earthquakes, hurricanes or certain types of terrorism. in addition, there are other risks, such as some environmental hazards, that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or may be too expensive to justify coverage. we may also encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur, or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all or a part of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. in that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. litigation judgments or settlements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. we are involved in various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. we are vigorously defending each of these claims. currently, none of these claims seeks relief that, if granted, would have a significant effect on our financial condition or results of operations. however, we could become the subject of claims by the operators of our hotels, individuals or companies who use our hotels, our investors, or regulating entities, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. we may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to the business acquired from starwood. assets and entities that we acquired from starwood may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against starwood. in general, the representations and warranties provided by starwood under the transaction agreement did not survive the closing of the transactions. while starwood is required to indemnify us with respect to breaches of certain representations and warranties that did survive the closing, such indemnification is limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible and an aggregate cap on losses. as a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by starwood of its representations and warranties. the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with acquired hotels and entities may exceed our expectations, plus we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. finally, the indemnification agreement between us and starwood provides that starwood will retain certain specified liabilities relating to the assets and entities acquired by us. while starwood is contractually obligated to pay all losses and other expenses relating to such retained liabilities without regard to survival limitations, materiality thresholds, the deductible or cap on losses, there can be no guarantee that this arrangement will not require us to incur losses or other expenses as well. if we were to acquire other hotel portfolios in the future, we may be subject to similar risks. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. we believe that our properties comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws. unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and remediate hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and remediation costs 25 incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. these laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. compliance with other government regulations can be costly. our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including title iii of the americans with disabilities act, building codes and regulations pertaining to fire safety. compliance with those laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. these regulations may be changed from time to time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may also be limited or prohibited by the terms of our preferred stock. under the terms of our outstanding class e preferred stock, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock unless cumulative dividends have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for payment) on such class of preferred stock. the amount of aggregate dividends that accrue on the class e preferred stock each quarter is approximately $2.2 million. in the event that we fail to pay the accrued dividends on our class e preferred stock for any reason, including any restriction on paying such dividends under the terms of our debt instruments (as discussed above), dividends will continue to accrue on such preferred stock and we will be prohibited from paying any dividends on our common stock until all such accrued but unpaid dividends on our class e preferred stock have been paid (or funds for such payment have been set aside). risks of ownership of host common stock there are limitations on the acquisition of host common stock and changes in control. host charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of host lp, host stockholder rights plan and the maryland general corporation law contain a number of provisions, the exercise of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or host lp unit holders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: restrictions on ownership and transfer of host stock. to maintain host qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of host outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned in the last half of the taxable year, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, which, as defined in the code, may include certain entities. because such ownership could jeopardize host qualification as a reit, a person cannot own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of an interest in a host lessee, nor can a host lessee of any partnership in which host is a partner own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of host shares, in each case unless exempted by host board of directors. 26 host charter prohibits ownership, directly or by virtue of the attribution provisions of the code, by any person or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of shares of host outstanding common stock, preferred stock or any other stock, each considered as a separate class or series for this purpose. together, these limitations are referred to as the ownership limit. stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the person who acquired the stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares of stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the stock or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares of host stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of host stock in excess of the ownership limit. these restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if host board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a reit. removal of board of directors. host charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast for the election of directors. vacancies on host board of directors may be filled by the concurring vote of a majority of the remaining directors (except that a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors must be filled by a majority vote of the entire board of directors) and, in the case of a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director by the stockholders, by at least two-thirds of votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. host charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that we have authority to issue is 800,000,000, initially consisting of 750,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. host board of directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock, including common stock into preferred stock or vice versa, and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued. because the board of directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of stock without a stockholder vote, host board of directors may give the holders of any class or series of stock preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock. consent rights of the limited partners. under the partnership agreement of host lp, we generally will have the right to merge or consolidate with another entity with the consent of partners holding limited partner ownership interests that are more than 50% of the aggregate ownership interests of the outstanding limited partnership interests entitled to vote on the merger or consolidation, including any limited partnership interests held by us, as long as the holders of limited partnership interests either receive or have the right to receive the same consideration as host stockholders. host, as holder of a majority of the limited partnership interests of host lp, would be able to control the vote. under host charter, generally holders of at least two-thirds of host outstanding shares of common stock must approve a merger or consolidation. maryland business combination law. under the maryland general corporation law, specified business combinations, including specified issuances of equity securities, between a maryland corporation and any person who owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation then outstanding shares, or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who at any time during the two year period prior to the date in question owned 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the corporation (each, an interested stockholder ), or an affiliate of the interested stockholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. thereafter, any of these specified business combinations must be approved by 27 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of outstanding voting shares and by two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of voting shares other than voting shares held by an interested stockholder unless, among other conditions, the corporation common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the maryland general corporation law, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder. as a maryland corporation, host is subject to the maryland business combination statute. maryland control share acquisition law. under the maryland general corporation law, control shares acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. control shares are voting shares which, if aggregated with all other voting shares previously acquired by the acquiror or over which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (1) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (2) one-third or more but less than a majority or (3) a majority or more of the voting power. control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. a control share acquisition means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specified exceptions. host is subject to these control share provisions of maryland law. merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of host assets. under host charter, subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer host assets within the meaning of the maryland general corporation law if approved (1) by host board of directors in the manner provided in the maryland general corporation law and (2) by host stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger of host with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing host form of organization from a corporation to a trust requires only the approval of host stockholders holding a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the merger. under the maryland general corporation law, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange is only required to be approved by a maryland corporation by its board of directors if the corporation is the successor entity. host voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. certain charter and bylaw amendments. host charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transferability of host stock, fixing the size of the board of directors within the range set forth in the charter, removal of directors and the filling of vacancies, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by host stockholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. as permitted under the maryland general corporation law, host bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend host bylaws. these provisions may make it more difficult to amend host charter and bylaws to alter the provisions described herein that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control or the acquisition of host common stock, without the approval of the board of directors. stockholder rights plan. we adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, host stockholders, other than an acquiring person, will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created class or series of junior preferred stock, subject to host ownership limits described above. the preferred stock purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 20% or more of host outstanding shares of common stock or (2) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 20% or more of host outstanding common stock. the exercise of the preferred share purchase rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by host board of directors. 28 shares of host common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price. sales of a substantial number of shares of host common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for host common stock. in addition, holders of units of limited partnership interest of host lp, whose op units may be redeemed, at host election, in exchange for common stock, will be able to sell those shares freely, unless the person is our affiliate and resale of the affiliate shares is not covered by an effective registration statement. further, a substantial number of shares of host common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans, including shares of common stock reserved for options, or pursuant to securities we may issue that are convertible into shares of host common stock or securities (other than op units) that host lp has issued that are exchangeable for shares of our common stock. as of december 31, 2007, there are approximately 18.3 million op units outstanding that are redeemable and $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of two series of exchangeable senior debentures of host lp that could become exchangeable under certain conditions for approximately 49 million shares of host common stock (subject to adjustment for various reasons, including as a result of the payment of dividends to common stockholders). moreover, additional shares of common stock issued by host would be available in the future for sale in the public markets. we can make no prediction about the effect that future sales of common stock would have on the market price of host common stock. our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of host common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit equity securities is based primarily upon the market perception of the reit growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets. for that reason, shares of host common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of host common stock. our failure to meet the market expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of host common stock. market interest rates may affect the price of shares of host common stock. we believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a reit is the dividend rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher dividend rate. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of host shares to decrease. federal income tax risks to qualify as a reit, host and each of our subsidiary reits are required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain, regardless of available cash or outstanding obligations. to continue to qualify as a reit, we are required to distribute to our stockholders with respect to each year at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding net capital gain. to the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income and net capital gain for the taxable year, we will be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. in addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by us with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income and 95% of our net capital gain for that year and any undistributed taxable income from prior years less excess distributions from prior years. we intend to make distributions, subject to the availability of cash and in compliance with any debt covenants, to our stockholders to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from host lp and its subsidiaries. however, there are differences in timing between our recognition of taxable income and our receipt of cash available for distribution 29 due to, among other things, the seasonality of the lodging industry and the fact that some taxable income will be phantom income, which is taxable income that is not matched by corresponding cash flow. due to some transactions entered into in years prior to host conversion to a reit, host could recognize substantial amounts of phantom income. it is possible that these differences between taxable income and the receipt of related cash could require us to borrow funds or to issue additional equity to enable host to meet the distribution requirement and, therefore, to maintain our reit status, and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax. in addition, because the reit distribution requirement prevents host from retaining earnings, we will generally be required to refinance debt at its maturity with additional debt or equity. it is possible that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would not be sufficient to meet host distribution and tax obligations. as a result of the starwood transactions, host owns, through host lp, 100% of the outstanding common stock (and a portion of the outstanding preferred stock) of two entities that have elected to be treated as reits. each of these subsidiary reits of host will be subject to the same requirements that host must satisfy in order to qualify as a reit, including the distribution requirements described above. adverse tax consequences would apply if host or any of our subsidiary reits fail to qualify as a reit. we believe that host has been organized and has operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a reit under the code, commencing with our taxable year beginning january 1, 1999, and host currently intends to continue to operate as a reit during future years. in addition, after the starwood transactions, host owns, through host lp, two entities as of december 31, 2007, that have elected to be treated as reits. as the requirements for qualification and taxation as a reit are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a reit are limited, no assurance can be provided that host currently qualifies as a reit or will continue to qualify as a reit or that each of host subsidiary reits qualify as a reit. if any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that host would fail to qualify as a reit unless we (or the subsidiary reit) could avail ourselves (itself) of certain relief provisions. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to an entity qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of its reit qualification. if host or any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, and any available relief provisions did not apply, the non-qualifying reit would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. moreover, unless entitled to statutory relief, the non-qualifying reit could not qualify as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which reit qualification is lost. any determination that host or one of our subsidiary reits does not qualify as a reit would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and could reduce the value of our common stock materially. the additional tax liability of host or the subsidiary reit for the year, or years, in which the relevant entity did not qualify as a reit would reduce its net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to stockholders. furthermore, the non-qualifying entity would no longer be required to make any distributions to stockholders as a condition to reit qualification and all of its distributions to stockholders would be taxable as regular c corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. this means, if host were to fail to qualify as a reit, that host stockholders currently taxed as individuals would be taxed on those dividends at capital gain rates and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case, to applicable limitations under the code. host failure to qualify as a reit also would cause an event of default under host lp credit facility that could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due under the credit facility, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under host lp outstanding debt securities. if our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, host and each of our subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. to qualify as a reit, host must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, such as rent. for the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our trs 30 subsidiaries, which currently constitutes substantially all of host and each of our subsidiary reits gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. we believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will agree with this characterization. if the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, neither host nor any of our subsidiary reits would be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to reits and each would most likely lose its reit status. if our affiliated lessees fail to qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries, host and each of our subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. rent paid by a lessee that is a related party tenant of host will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to reits. we lease substantially all of our hotels to our subsidiary that is taxable as a regular c corporation and that has elected to be treated as a taxable reit subsidiary with respect to host. each of the hotels acquired from starwood are also leased to either a taxable reit subsidiary of host or a taxable reit subsidiary of a subsidiary reit. so long as any affiliated lessee qualifies as a taxable reit subsidiary, it will not be treated as a related party tenant. we believe that our affiliated lessees have qualified and will continue to qualify, and that the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits will qualify, to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will not challenge the status of a taxable reit subsidiary for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in disqualifying any of our affiliated lessees (including the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits) from treatment as a taxable reit subsidiary, it is possible that host or a subsidiary reit would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to reits and substantially all of its income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. if this occurred, host and our subsidiary reits would likely lose their reit status. despite the reit status of host and our subsidiary reits, we remain subject to various taxes. host or one of its subsidiary reits will be required to pay federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate on built-in gain recognized as a result of any sale of a hotel asset before the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period of assets, including certain hotels acquired as part of host conversion to a reit or from starwood and its affiliates as part of the acquisition of the starwood portfolio. the total amount of gain on which host would be subject to corporate income tax if all of these built-in gain assets were sold in a taxable transaction prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period would be material to us. in addition, we expect that we could recognize other substantial deferred tax liabilities in the future without any corresponding receipt of cash. notwithstanding their status as a reit, host and our subsidiaries (including our subsidiary reits) will be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on their income and property. for example, host and our subsidiary reits will pay tax on certain types of income that is not distributed and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable reit subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm length basis. moreover, the taxable reit subsidiaries of host and our subsidiary reits are taxable as regular c corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent they own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. host lp is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by host. if the irs were to challenge successfully host lp status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, host would cease to qualify as a reit and suffer other adverse consequences. we believe that host lp qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. as a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. instead, each of its partners, including host, is 31 required to pay tax on such partner allocable share of its income. no assurance can be provided, however, that the irs will not challenge host lp status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating host lp as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, host would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to reits and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a reit. if host lp fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or host fails to qualify as a reit, either failure would cause an event of default under host lp credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under host lp outstanding debt securities. also, the failure of host lp to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal, state and foreign corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including host. as a reit, each of host and our subsidiary reits is subject to limitations on its ownership of debt and equity securities. subject to certain exceptions, a reit is generally prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer to the extent that the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets or the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities or more than 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. a reit is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. however, a reit may not own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 20% of the value of the reit total assets. if host or any of its subsidiary reits were to violate these ownership limitations, each would likely lose its reit status. host or our subsidiary reits may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. the federal income tax provisions applicable to reits provide that any gain realized by a reit on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% excise tax. under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. we intend to hold our hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels as are consistent with our investment objectives. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% excise tax. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. valuations for secured debt are determined based on the expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates. senior notes and the convertible subordinated debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. currently, all of our outstanding debt has a fixed interest rate and we have no derivative financial instruments that are used to hedge interest rate risk or that are held for trading purposes. however, going forward, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks related to future borrowings. the table below presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value ($ in millions) liabilities debt: fixed rate $ 261 $ 319 $ 507 $ 141 $ 957 $ 3,440 $ 5,625 $ 5,604 average interest rate 6.0 % 5.9 % 6.1 % 6.2 % 6.6 % 6.7 % total debt $ 5,625 $ 5,604 as of december 31, 2007, all of our debt bears interest at fixed rates. our current debt structure largely mitigates the impact of changes in interest rates on our cash interest payments. our credit facility is sensitive to changes in interest rates, which is based on a spread over libor, ranging from 65 basis points to 150 basis points. there were no amounts outstanding on our credit facility at december 31, 2007. we pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the loan commitment that ranges from 10 to 15 basis points. during march 2007, we prepaid our $88 million mortgage on the jw marriott, washington, d.c. as a result, we terminated an interest rate cap that capped the floating interest rate of the loan at 8.1%. the cap represented a derivative that was marked to market each period and the gains and losses from changes in the market value of the cap were recorded in gain (loss) on foreign currency and derivative contracts. as of december 31, 2006, approximately 6% of our debt bore interest at variable rates, which included our jw marriott, washington, d.c. mortgage, based on libor plus 210 basis points, and our credit facility, based on libor plus a spread of 200 basis points to 300 basis points. during 2006, we terminated our interest rate swap agreements related to our series g and i senior notes for approximately $1 million and $3 million, respectively. as we received fixed rate payments and paid floating rate payments under the swap agreements, we designated them as fair value hedges and amounts paid or received were recognized as adjustments to interest expense. exchange rate sensitivity as we have non-u.s. operations (specifically, the ownership of hotels in canada, mexico, chile and our european joint venture), currency exchange risk arises as a normal part of our business. to manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-u.s. hotels, where possible, we may enter into forward or option contracts. the foreign currency exchange agreements that we have entered into in the past were strictly to hedge foreign currency risk and not for trading purposes. as of december 31, 2007, we have no outstanding foreign currency contracts. 75 on february 5, 2008, we entered into a foreign currency forward purchase contract to hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in the european joint venture. we hedged 30 million ($43 million) of our investment and the forward purchase will occur in august 2011. the derivative is considered a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, and, in accordance with sfas 133, will be marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income within the stockholder equity portion of our balance sheet. 76risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 16 forward looking statements our disclosure and analysis in this 2008 form 10-k and in our 2008 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify each such statement by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future acquisitions or dispositions, future capital expenditure plans, future performance or results of current and anticipated expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statements will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions, including the risk factors discussed below. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make or related subjects in our 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such risk factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. financial risks and risks of operation current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. the united states economy is currently in the midst of a recession and the future economic environment is likely to be less favorable than that of recent years. this recession has and could further lead to reduced consumer and commercial spending in the foreseeable future. the performance of the lodging industry has historically been closely linked with the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in the united states gross domestic product, business investment and employment growth. as a result, the lodging industry may experience significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. in addition, the vast majority of our hotels are classified as luxury or upper-upscale hotels. in an economic downturn, these types of hotels are likely to be more susceptible to a decrease in revenue, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates. declines in demand and in consumer and commercial spending may drive us and our competitors to reduce pricing, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit. a continued weakening of the economy may adversely and materially affect our industry, business and results of operations and we can not accurately predict how severe and prolonged any downturn might be. moreover, reduced revenues as a result of the weakening economy may also reduce our working capital and impact our long-term business strategy. our revenues and the value of our properties are also subject to other conditions affecting the lodging industry. the lodging industry is also subject to changes in travel patterns of business and leisure travelers, both of which are affected by the strength of the economy, as discussed above, as well as other factors. changes in travel 17 patterns of both business and leisure travelers may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results. our results of operations, and any forecast we make, may be affected and can change based on the following risks: changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate; changes in business and leisure travel patterns; the effect of terrorist attacks and terror alerts in the united states and internationally, as well as other geopolitical disturbances supply growth in markets where we own hotels which may adversely affect demand at our properties; the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to our competition; the performance of the managers of our hotels; changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and unionization of the labor force at our hotels. the recent disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our business and results of operations, our ability to obtain financing on reasonable and acceptable terms, our ability to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk and the market price of our common stock. the united states and global stock and credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective and outstanding debt financings to widen considerably. these circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings materially less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the lack of availability of certain types of financing. continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional short-term and long-term financing on reasonable terms or at all, which would negatively impact our liquidity and financial condition. a prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business operations accordingly. in addition, if one or more of the financial institutions that support our existing credit facility fails, we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively impact our ability to borrow under the credit facility. similarly, if one or more of the financial institutions that support our currency hedging arrangements fails, we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively impact our ability to hedge the foreign currency exchange risk relating to our international operations and may cause a default under our existing financing agreements. these disruptions in the financial markets also may adversely affect our credit rating and the market value of our common stock. in addition, if the current pressures on credit continue or worsen, we may not be able to refinance, if necessary, our outstanding debt when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. while we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt servicing and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our operating results worsen significantly and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. unlike regular c corporations, we must finance our growth and fund debt repayments largely with external sources of capital because we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (other than net capital gain) in order to qualify as a reit, including taxable income we recognize for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive cash. our ability to access the external capital we require could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including 18 declining credit market conditions as discussed above, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, or decreases in the market price of host common stock. in addition, our ability to access additional capital may also be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, under certain circumstances, restricts our incurrence of debt and the payment of distributions. the occurrence of any of these above-mentioned factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us or at all and the failure to obtain necessary external capital could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future growth. we have substantial debt. as of december 31, 2008, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $6.0 billion. our substantial indebtedness has important consequences. it currently requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, dividends and other general purposes. additionally, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our debt or obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general business purposes on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all; or affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. if our cash flow and working capital were not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we would have to raise additional funds through: sales of our equity; the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by host lp; or the sale of our assets. we cannot make any assurances that any of these sources of funds would be available to us or, if available, would be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient to meet our obligations or fulfill our business plan. the terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, reducing operational flexibility and creating default risks. the documents governing the terms of our existing senior notes and our credit facility contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. these covenants restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: conduct acquisitions, mergers or consolidations unless the successor entity in such transaction assumes our indebtedness; incur additional debt in excess of certain thresholds and without satisfying certain financial metrics; create liens securing indebtedness, unless an effective provision is made to secure our other indebtedness by such liens; sell assets without using the proceeds from such sales for certain permitted uses or to make an offer to repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness; make capital expenditures in excess of certain thresholds; 19 pay dividends without satisfying certain financial metrics; and conduct transactions with affiliates other than on an arms length basis and, in certain instances, without obtaining opinions as to the fairness of such transactions. in addition, certain covenants in the credit facility require us and our subsidiaries to meet financial performance tests. if we fail to meet such tests, the restrictive covenants in the applicable indenture(s), the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. for a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial condition . our ability to pay dividends may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness or preferred stock. we are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on our classes and series of capital stock. under the terms of host lp credit facility and senior notes indenture, distributions to host by host lp, upon which host depends in order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, are permitted only to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, host lp can satisfy certain financial covenant tests (concerning leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest coverage) and meet other requirements. in addition, under the terms of our outstanding class e preferred stock, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock unless all cumulative dividends have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for payment). the amount of aggregate dividends that accrue on the class e preferred stock each quarter is approximately $2.2 million. in the event that we fail to pay the accrued dividends on our class e preferred stock for any reason, including any restriction on paying such dividends under the terms of our debt instruments (as discussed above), dividends will continue to accrue on such preferred stock and we will be prohibited from paying any dividends on our common stock until all such accrued but unpaid dividends on our class e preferred stock have been paid (or funds for such payment have been set aside). defaulting on our mortgage debt could adversely affect our business. as of december 31, 2008, 14 of our hotels and assets related thereto are subject to mortgages in an aggregate amount of approximately $1.4 billion. although the debt is generally non-recourse to us, if these hotels do not produce adequate cash flow to service the debt secured by such mortgages, the mortgage lenders could call a default on these assets. generally, we would expect to negotiate with the lender prior to the occurrence of a default in the pursuit of other options such as a deed in lieu of foreclosure. however, we may opt to allow such default to occur rather than make the necessary mortgage payments with funds from other sources. host lp senior notes indenture and credit facility contain cross-default provisions, which, depending upon the amount of secured debt in default, could cause a cross-default under both of these agreements. host lp credit facility, which contains a more restrictive cross-default provision than the senior notes indenture, provides that a credit facility default occurs in the event host lp defaults on non-recourse secured indebtedness in excess of 1% of its total assets (using undepreciated real estate values), or defaults on other indebtedness in excess of $50 million. for this and other reasons, permitting a default could adversely affect our long-term business prospects. our mortgage debt contains provisions that may reduce our liquidity. certain of our mortgage debt requires that, to the extent cash flow from the hotels which secure such debt drops below stated levels, we escrow cash flow after the payment of debt service until operations improve above the stated levels. in some cases, the lender has the right to apply the escrowed amount to the outstanding balance 20 of the mortgage debt. when such provisions are triggered, there can be no assurance that the affected properties will achieve the minimum cash flow levels required to trigger a release of any escrowed funds. the amounts required to be escrowed may be material and may negatively affect our liquidity by limiting our access to cash flow after debt service from these mortgaged properties. an increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on our credit facility and any variable rate debt we incur and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. for borrowings on our credit facility and the $300 million mortgage on our orlando world center marriott, interest payments are based on floating rates. to the extent we draw on the credit facility, an increase in interest rates will reduce our cash flow available for other corporate purposes including investments in our portfolio. further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures and increase interest costs on any debt that is refinanced. we may from time to time enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts. while these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of assets as part of our business strategy. rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. both our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by moody investors service, standard &amp; poor and fitch ratings. these independent rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred stock at any time. such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. our expenses may not decrease if our revenue decreases. many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt service payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the hotels. our expenses will also be affected by inflationary increases, and certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period and, in the event of a significant decrease in demand, we may not be able to downsize employees to decrease wages and benefits. our managers may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. any of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures could also adversely affect the future growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties. our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. as part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire luxury and upper upscale hotel properties. we may acquire properties through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other reits or similar real estate entities. we anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from host equity offerings, issuance of limited partnership interests of host lp, advances under our credit facility, the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness and proceeds from the sales of assets. recent declines in credit markets may limit our ability to finance acquisitions. in addition, the decline in credit markets may limit the ability of purchasers to finance hotels and adversely affect our disposition strategy and our ability to use disposition proceeds to finance acquisitions. we may, from time to time, be in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we cannot provide any assurances that we will be 21 successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from the acquisitions that we consummate. our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities. we do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. since federal income tax laws restrict reits and their subsidiaries from operating or managing a hotel, we do not operate or manage our hotels. instead, we lease substantially all of our hotels to subsidiaries which qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries under applicable reit laws, and our taxable reit subsidiaries retain third-party managers to operate our hotels pursuant to management agreements. our cash flow from the hotels may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. while our taxable reit subsidiaries monitor the hotel managers performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. in addition, from time to time, we have had, and continue to have, differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. we generally resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. however, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in or provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, which may result in conflicts of interest. as a result, our hotel managers have in the past made and may in the future make decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interests. we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our hotels, we are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. from time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted through strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. we may also incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events. additionally, hotels where our managers have collective bargaining agreements with employees (approximately 21% of our current portfolio, by revenues) are more highly affected by labor force activities than others. in addition, the resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. furthermore, labor agreements may limit the ability of our managers to reduce the size of hotel workforces during an economic downturn because collective bargaining agreements are negotiated between the managers of our hotels and labor unions. we do not have the ability to control the outcome of these negotiations. our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and potentially significant capital expenditures to remain competitive in the marketplace, maintain brand standards or to comply with applicable laws or regulations. the timing and costs of such renovations or improvements may result in reduced operating performance during construction and may not improve the return on these investments. in addition to capital expenditures required by our loan agreements or agreements with our hotel managers, we will need to make capital expenditures to remain competitive with other hotels, to maintain the economic value of our hotels and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. the timing of these improvements can 22 affect hotel performance particularly if the improvements require closures of a significant number of rooms or the closure of other features of the hotels such as ballrooms, meeting space and restaurants. these capital improvements reduce the availability of cash for other purposes and are subject to cost overruns and delays. in addition, because we depend on external sources of capital, we may not have the necessary funds to invest and if we fail to maintain our properties in accordance with brand standards set by our managers, the manager may terminate the management agreement. moreover, we may not necessarily realize a significant, or any, improvement in the performance of the hotels in which we make these investments. the expansion of our business into new markets outside of the united states will expose us to risks relating to owning hotels in those international markets. part of our business strategy is to expand our presence internationally through joint ventures. in addition, we own directly seven hotels located outside the united states. we may have difficulty managing our expansion into new geographic markets where we have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area, or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures and regulations. there are risks inherent in conducting business internationally, which include: employment laws and practices; tax laws which may provide for income or other tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to dividend withholding requirements or other restrictions; compliance with and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy; the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing and changes in the availability, cost and terms of such financing; adverse changes in local, political, economic and market conditions; insurance coverage related to terrorist events; changes in interest rates and/or the currency exchange rates; regulations regarding the incurrence of debts; and difficulties in complying with u.s. rules governing reits while operating internationally. any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to obtain all of the intended benefits of our international expansion. if we do not effectively manage our geographic expansion and successfully integrate the foreign hotels into our organization, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected and the value of host common stock may decline. we may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. we have made a significant investment in a european joint venture, which owns eleven hotels in europe. in addition, we have formed another joint venture to explore investment opportunities in asia and australia. we may, from time to time, invest as a co-venturer in other entities holding hotel properties instead of purchasing hotel properties directly. co-venturers often share control over the operation of a joint venture. actions by a co-venturer could subject the assets to additional risk as a result of any of the following circumstances: our co-venturer might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint venture s, interests or goals; or our co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. 23 our management agreements could affect the sale or financing of our hotels. under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer our hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets specified other conditions. our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager consent. if the manager does not consent to such sale or financing, we may be precluded from taking actions in our best interest. the acquisition contracts relating to some hotels limit our ability to sell or refinance those hotels. for reasons relating to federal and state income tax considerations of the former and current owners of three hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods depending on the hotel. two of these agreements will expire in 2010 and the third will expire in 2028. as a result, even if it were in our best interests to sell these hotels or repay or otherwise reduce the level of the mortgage debt on such hotels, it may be difficult or costly to do so during their respective lock-out periods. in specified circumstances, we may agree to similar restrictions in connection with future hotel acquisitions. future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect us. previous terrorist attacks in the united states and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries over the past several years. the impact that terrorist attacks in the united states or elsewhere could have on domestic and international markets and our business in particular is indeterminable. it is possible that such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and/or our results of operations and financial condition as a whole. we may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. we obtain terrorism insurance as part of our all-risk property insurance program, as well as our general liability and directors and officers coverages. however, our all-risk policies have limitations such as per occurrence limits, annual aggregate coverage limits and sublimits which might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. also, all-risk insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act ( tripra ) effective december 26, 2007. property damage related to war and to nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. while tripra will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical perils, tripra does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. host has a wholly-owned captive insurance company through which it obtains a policy of nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) coverage. this captive insurer has the same ability as other insurance companies to apply to the us treasury for reimbursement, as provided for in tripra, and is subject to the same deductibles and co-insurance obligations. this potential reimbursement applies to property insurance only, and not to general liability or directors and officers insurance, and there are no assurances that we will be able to recover any or all of our ncbr losses under this program. some potential losses are not covered by insurance. we, or our hotel managers, carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. these policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar type properties. generally, our all-risk property policies provide coverage that is available on a per occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, has 24 an overall limit, as well as various sub-limits, on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. sub-limits exist for certain types of claims such as service interruption, abatement, expediting costs, landscaping replacement and natural disasters such as earthquakes and hurricanes. the dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. in this regard, hotels in certain of our markets, including california and florida have in the past and continue to be particularly susceptible to damage from earthquakes and hurricanes. recovery under the applicable policies is also subject to substantial deductibles and complex calculations of lost business income. there is no assurance that this insurance, where maintained, will fully fund the re-building or restoration of a hotel impacted by an earthquake, hurricane or other natural disasters, or the income lost as a result of the damage. our property policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case where the manager of one of our hotels provides this coverage, any such claims will also be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the managers program for the same purpose. therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, or, in the case of hotels where coverage is provided by the management company, affects hotels owned by others, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached. each affected hotel may only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. we may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive complete coverage for risks that affect multiple properties such as earthquakes, hurricanes or certain types of terrorism. in addition, there are other risks, such as certain environmental hazards, that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify coverage. we may also encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur, or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all or a part of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. in that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. finally, the current disruption in financial markets makes it more difficult to evaluate the stability and net assets or capitalization of insurance companies, and any insurer ability to meet its claim payment obligations. litigation judgments or settlements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. we are involved in various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. we are vigorously defending each of these claims. currently, none of these claims seeks relief that, if granted, would have a significant effect on our financial condition or results of operations. however, we could become the subject of claims by the operators of our hotels, individuals or companies who use our hotels, our investors, or regulating entities, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. we may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to hotels or businesses we acquire. assets and entities that we have acquired or may in the future acquire may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. in general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements may not survive the closing of the transactions. while we usually require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification is often limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. as a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. in addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with acquired hotels and entities may exceed our expectations, plus we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all 25 of which may adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. finally, indemnification agreements between us and the sellers typically provide that the sellers will retain certain specified liabilities relating to the assets and entities acquired by us. while the sellers are generally contractually obligated to pay all losses and other expenses relating to such retained liabilities without regard to survival limitations, materiality thresholds, deductibles or caps on losses, there can be no guarantee that such arrangements will not require us to incur losses or other expenses as well. we depend on our key personnel. our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. none of our key personnel have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. we cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. while we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of the expansion of host international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect its results of operations and financial position. host expects to generate an increasing portion of its revenue and its expenses in such foreign currencies as the euro, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the british pound, the polish zloty and the chilean peso. although host may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and other foreign currencies, these hedging transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. in addition, to the extent that host is unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on host results of operations and financial condition. additionally, because host consolidated financial results are reported in us dollars, if host generates revenues or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into us dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those revenues or earnings. applicable reit laws may restrict certain business activities. as a reit we are subject to various restrictions on our income, assets and activities. business activities that could be impacted by applicable reit laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units. due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will conduct certain business activities, including those mentioned above, in one or more of our taxable reit subsidiaries. our taxable reit subsidiaries are taxable as regular c corporations and are subject to federal, state, local, and, if applicable, foreign taxation on their taxable income at applicable corporate income tax rates. we may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are inherently illiquid. real estate properties generally cannot be sold quickly and, accordingly, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. the inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service our debt. in addition, there are limitations under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive on the hotels situated on the leased properties. as of december 31, 2008, 35 of our hotels are subject to third-party ground leases (encumbering all or a portion of the hotel). these ground leases generally require periodic increases in ground rent payments, which 26 are often based on economic indicators such as the consumer price index. our ability to pay ground rental could be adversely affected to the extent that our revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. in addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would have to assume the ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. we believe that our properties comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws. unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and remediate hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and remediation costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. these laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. compliance with other government regulations can be costly. our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including title iii of the americans with disabilities act, building codes and regulations pertaining to fire safety. compliance with those laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. these regulations may be changed from time to time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks of ownership of host common stock there are limitations on the acquisition of host common stock and changes in control. host charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of host lp, and the maryland general corporation law contain a number of provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or host lp unit holders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: restrictions on ownership and transfer of host stock. to maintain host qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of host outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned in the last half of the taxable year, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, which, as defined in the internal revenue code (the code ), may include certain entities. because such ownership could jeopardize host qualification as a reit, a person cannot own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of an interest in a host lessee, nor can a host lessee of any partnership in which host is a partner own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of host shares, in each case unless exempted by host board of directors. host charter prohibits ownership, directly or by virtue of the attribution provisions of the code, by any person or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more 27 restrictive, of shares of host outstanding common stock, preferred stock or any other stock, each considered as a separate class or series for this purpose. together, these limitations are referred to as the ownership limit. stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the person who acquired the stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares of stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the stock or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares of host stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of host stock in excess of the ownership limit. these restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if host board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a reit. removal of board of directors. host charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. vacancies on host board of directors may be filled by the concurring vote of a majority of the remaining directors (except that a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors must be filled by a majority vote of the entire board of directors) and, in the case of a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director by the stockholders, by at least two-thirds of votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. host charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that we have authority to issue is 800,000,000, initially consisting of 750,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. host board of directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock, including common stock into preferred stock or vice versa, and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued. because the board of directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of stock without a stockholder vote, host board of directors may give the holders of any class or series of stock preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock. maryland business combination law. under the maryland general corporation law, specified business combinations, including specified issuances of equity securities, between a maryland corporation and any person who owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation then outstanding shares, or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who at any time during the two year period prior to the date in question owned 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the corporation (each, an interested stockholder ), or an affiliate of the interested stockholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. thereafter, any of these specified business combinations must be approved by 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of outstanding voting shares and by two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of voting shares other than voting shares held by an interested stockholder unless, among other conditions, the corporation common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the maryland general corporation law, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder. as a maryland corporation, host is subject to the maryland business combination statute. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors before the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. the board of directors has not granted any such exceptions at this time. maryland control share acquisition law. under the maryland general corporation law, control shares acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by 28 a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. control shares are voting shares which, if aggregated with all other voting shares previously acquired by the acquiror or over which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (1) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (2) one-third or more but less than a majority or (3) a majority or more of the voting power. control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. a control share acquisition means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specified exceptions. our bylaws contain a provision exempting us from the control share provisions of maryland law. there can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of host assets. under maryland law and host charter, subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer host assets within the meaning of the maryland general corporation law if approved (1) by host board of directors in the manner provided in the maryland general corporation law and (2) by host stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger of host with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing host form of organization from a corporation to a trust requires only the approval of host stockholders holding a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the merger. under the maryland general corporation law, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange is only required to be approved by a maryland corporation by its board of directors if the corporation is the successor entity. host voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. certain charter and bylaw amendments. host charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transferability of host stock, fixing the size of the board of directors within the range set forth in the charter, removal of directors, the filling of vacancies, exculpation and indemnification of directors, calling special stockholder meetings and others, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by host stockholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. other charter amendments generally require approval of the board and the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. as permitted under the maryland general corporation law, host bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend host bylaws. these provisions may make it more difficult to amend host charter and bylaws to alter the provisions described herein that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control or the acquisition of host common stock, without the approval of the board of directors. shares of host common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price. sales of a substantial number of shares of host common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for host common stock. in addition, holders of units of limited partnership interest of host lp, whose op units may be redeemed, at host election, in exchange for common stock, will be able to sell those shares freely, unless the person is our affiliate and resale of the affiliate shares is not covered by an effective registration statement. further, a substantial number of shares of host common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans, including shares of common stock reserved for options, or pursuant to securities we may issue that are convertible into shares of host common stock or securities (other than op units) that host lp has issued that are exchangeable for shares of our common stock. as of december 31, 2008, there are approximately 15.1 million op units outstanding that are redeemable and $400 million principal amount of exchangeable senior debentures of host lp issued in 2004 that could become exchangeable under certain conditions for approximately 25 million shares of host common stock (subject to adjustment for various reasons, including as a result of the payment of 29 dividends to common stockholders). in 2007, we also issued an additional $600 million principal amount of exchangeable debentures, the principal portion of which is cash-settled, therefore, no shares would be issued unless our share price exceeded the exchange rate of the 2007 debentures of $31.90 as of december 31, 2008. moreover, additional shares of common stock issued by host would be available in the future for sale in the public markets. we can make no prediction about the effect that future sales of common stock would have on the market price of host common stock. our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of host common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit equity securities is based primarily upon the market perception of the reit growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets. for that reason, shares of host common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of host common stock. our failure to meet the market expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of host common stock. market interest rates may affect the price of shares of host common stock. we believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a reit is the dividend rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher dividend rate. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of host shares to decrease. federal income tax risks to qualify as a reit, each of host and its subsidiary reits are required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain, regardless of available cash or outstanding obligations. to continue to qualify as a reit, we are required to distribute to our stockholders with respect to each year at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding net capital gain. to the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income and net capital gain for the taxable year, we will be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. in addition, we will be subject to a nondeductible 4% excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by us with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income and 95% of our net capital gain for that year and any undistributed taxable income from prior years less excess distributions from prior years. we intend to make distributions, subject to the availability of cash and in compliance with any debt covenants, to our stockholders to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid the imposition of a significant nondeductible 4% excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from host lp and its subsidiaries. we may incur a nominal nondeductible 4% excise tax for 2008, depending on the amount of our final 2008 taxable income. there are differences in timing between our recognition of taxable income and our receipt of cash available for distribution due to, among other things, the seasonality of the lodging industry and the fact that some taxable income will be phantom income, which is taxable income that is not matched by cash flow. due to transactions entered into in years prior to host conversion to a reit, host could recognize substantial amounts of phantom income. it is possible that these differences between taxable income and the receipt of related cash could require us to borrow funds or to issue additional equity to enable host to meet the distribution requirement and, therefore, to maintain our reit status, and to avoid the nondeductible 4% excise tax. in addition, because the reit distribution requirement prevents host from retaining earnings, we will generally be required to refinance debt at its maturity with additional debt or equity. it is possible that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would not be sufficient to meet host distribution and tax obligations. 30 as a result of an acquisition in 2006, host owns, through host lp, 100% of the outstanding common stock (and a portion of the outstanding preferred stock) of two entities that have elected to be treated as reits. each of these subsidiary reits of host will be subject to the same requirements that host must satisfy in order to qualify as a reit, including the distribution requirements described above. adverse tax consequences would apply if host or any of its subsidiary reits fail to qualify as a reit. we believe that host has been organized and has operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a reit under the code, commencing with our taxable year beginning january 1, 1999, and host currently intends to continue to operate as a reit during future years. in addition, host owns, through host lp, two entities as of december 31, 2008, that have elected to be treated as reits. as the requirements for qualification and taxation as a reit are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a reit are limited, no assurance can be provided that host currently qualifies as a reit or will continue to qualify as a reit or that each of host subsidiary reits qualify as a reit. if any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that host would fail to qualify as a reit unless we (or the subsidiary reit) could avail ourselves (itself) of certain relief provisions. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to an entity qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of its reit qualification. if host or any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, and any available relief provisions did not apply, the non-qualifying reit would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. moreover, unless entitled to statutory relief, the non-qualifying reit would not qualify as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which reit qualification was lost. any determination that host or one of our subsidiary reits does not qualify as a reit would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could reduce the value of our common stock materially. the additional tax liability of host or the subsidiary reit for the year, or years, in which the relevant entity did not qualify as a reit would reduce its net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to stockholders. furthermore, the non-qualifying entity would no longer be required to make any distributions to stockholders as a condition to reit qualification and all of its distributions to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary c corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. this means that if host were to fail to qualify as a reit, host stockholders currently taxed as individuals would be taxed on those dividends at capital gain rates and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case, to applicable limitations under the code. host failure to qualify as a reit also would cause an event of default under host lp credit facility that could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due under the credit facility, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under host lp outstanding debt securities. if our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, each of host and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. to qualify as a reit, host must satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, such as rent. for the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our trs subsidiaries, which currently constitutes substantially all of host and each of our subsidiary reits gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. we believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will agree with this characterization. if the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, neither host nor any of our subsidiary reits would be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to reits and each would likely lose its reit status. 31 if our affiliated lessees fail to qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries, each of host and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. rent paid by a lessee that is a related party tenant of host will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to reits. we lease substantially all of our hotels to our subsidiary that is taxable as a regular c corporation and that has elected to be treated as a taxable reit subsidiary with respect to host. so long as any affiliated lessee qualifies as a taxable reit subsidiary, it will not be treated as a related party tenant. we believe that our affiliated lessees have qualified and will continue to qualify, and that the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits have qualified and will continue to qualify, to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will not challenge the status of a taxable reit subsidiary for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in disqualifying any of our affiliated lessees (including the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits) from treatment as a taxable reit subsidiary, it is possible that host or a subsidiary reit would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to reits and substantially all of its income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. if host or a subsidiary reit failed to meet either the asset or gross income tests, each would likely lose its reit status. despite the reit status of each of host and its subsidiary reits, we remain subject to various taxes. one of host subsidiary reits will be required to pay federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate on built-in gain recognized as a result of any sale of a hotel asset before the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period of assets, including certain hotels acquired from starwood and its affiliates in 2006. the total amount of gain on which the subsidiary reit would be subject to corporate income tax if all of its built-in gain assets were sold in a taxable transaction prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period would be material to it. in addition, we expect that we could recognize other substantial deferred tax liabilities in the future without any corresponding receipt of cash. notwithstanding their status as a reit, host and our subsidiaries (including our subsidiary reits) will be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on their income and property. for example, host and our subsidiary reits will pay tax on certain types of income that is not distributed and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable reit subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm length basis. moreover, the taxable reit subsidiaries of host and our subsidiary reits are taxable as regular c corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent they own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. host lp is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by host. if the irs were to challenge successfully host lp status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, host would cease to qualify as a reit and suffer other adverse consequences. we believe that host lp qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. as a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. instead, each of its partners, including host, is required to pay tax on such partner allocable share of its income. no assurance can be provided, however, that the irs will not challenge host lp status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating host lp as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, host would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to reits and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a reit. if host lp fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or host fails to qualify as a reit, either failure would cause an event of default under host lp credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under host lp outstanding debt securities. also, the failure of host lp to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes would cause it to become subject to federal, state and foreign corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including host. 32 as a reit, each of host and its subsidiary reits is subject to limitations on its ownership of debt and equity securities. subject to certain exceptions, a reit is generally prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer to the extent that (1) the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets, (2) the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities, or (3) the reit owns more than 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. a reit is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. however, a reit may not own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 20% (25% for tax years beginning after july 30, 2008) of the value of the reit total assets. if host or any of its subsidiary reits were to violate these ownership limitations, each would likely lose its reit status. each of host or its subsidiary reits may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. the federal income tax provisions applicable to reits provide that any gain realized by a reit on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% excise tax. under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. we intend to hold our hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels consistent with our investment objectives. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% excise tax. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. valuations for secured debt are determined based on the expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates. senior notes and the exchangeable debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. currently, we have no derivative financial instruments that are used to hedge interest rate risk or that are held for trading purposes. however, going forward, we may use derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks related to future borrowings. the table below presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date 2009 2010 2011(1) 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value ($ in millions) liabilities debt: fixed rate $ 321 $ 409 $ 115 $ 959 $ 737 $ 2,701 $ 5,242 $ 4,240 average interest rate 6.0 % 6.1 % 6.2 % 6.6 % 6.7 % 6.8 % variable rate variable rate $ $ $ 710 $ $ $ $ 710 $ 679 average interest rate 4.1 % 4.1 % 4.0 % % % % total debt $ 5,952 $ 4,919 (1) the debt maturing in 2011 includes $410 million related to borrowings under the credit facility, which can be extended, at our option, for one year if our leverage ratio is below 6.75x. see financial condition for further discussion. similarly, the $300 million mortgage loan on the orlando world center marriott, which also matures in 2011, can be extended for two one-year periods, subject to achieving a certain debt coverage ratio and other conditions. our current debt structure, which primarily consists of fixed rate debt largely mitigates the impact of changes in interest rates on our cash interest payments. as of december 31, 2008, we had a $210 million term loan and $200 million outstanding under the revolver portion of our credit facility. our credit facility borrowings are sensitive to changes in interest rates, and are based on a spread over libor, ranging from 65 basis points to 175 basis points depending on our leverage ratio. additionally, in 2008 we entered into a $300 million floating rate mortgage loan on our orlando world center marriott that bears interest at libor plus 350 basis points. valuations for secured debt and the credit facility are determined based on the expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates. senior notes and the exchangeable senior debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. during march 2007, we prepaid our $88 million mortgage on the jw marriott, washington, d.c. as a result, we terminated an interest rate cap that capped the floating interest rate of the loan at 8.1%. the cap represented a derivative that was marked to market each period and the gains and losses from changes in the market value of the cap were recorded in gain (loss) on foreign currency and derivative contracts. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increase or decrease by 100 basis points, the change in interest expense would change future earnings and cash flows by approximately $7 million annually. exchange rate sensitivity as we have non-u.s. operations (specifically, the ownership of hotels in canada, mexico and chile and investments in our european joint venture), currency exchange risk arises as a normal part of our business. to 79 manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-u.s. hotels, where possible, we may enter into forward or option contracts. the foreign currency exchange agreements that we have entered into were strictly to hedge foreign currency risk and not for trading purposes. during 2008, we have entered into three foreign currency forward purchase contracts totaling 60 million (approximately $88 million) to hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in the european joint venture. under these transactions, we will sell the euro amount, and receive the u.s. dollar amount on the forward purchase date. these derivatives are considered a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, and, in accordance with sfas 133, are marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income within the stockholders equity portion of our balance sheet. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. during 2008, we recorded an increase in the fair value of the derivative instruments totaling approximately $6 million, which is equal to the fair value as of december 31, 2008 included in accumulated other comprehensive income. the following table summarizes our three foreign currency purchase contracts (in millions): transaction date transaction amount in euros transaction amount in dollars forward purchase date february 2008 30 $ 43 august 2011 february 2008 15 22 february 2013 may 2008 15 23 may 2014 80risk factors 17 risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 17 table of contents forward looking statements our disclosure and analysis in this 2009 form 10-k and in our 2009 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management plans and assumptions. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have tried, wherever possible, to identify each such statement by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future acquisitions or dispositions, future capital expenditure plans, future performance or results of current and anticipated expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. we cannot guarantee that any future results discussed in any forward-looking statements will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions, including those discussed in the risk factors below. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make or related subjects in our reports on form 10-q and form 8-k that we file with the sec. also note that in the following risk factors we provide a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. these are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. it is not possible to predict or identify all such risk factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all of the potential risks or uncertainties that could affect our business. financial risks and risks of operation current economic conditions have already adversely affected and will continue to adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. the current weak economic environment, triggered by recent declines in gdp, business investment, corporate profits, consumer spending and continuing high levels of unemployment, has negatively impacted, and we believe will continue to negatively impact, overall lodging demand. the performance of the lodging industry has historically been closely linked with the performance of the general economy. trends affecting overall lodging demand were weak in 2009 and continue to impact our results of operations (including our revenue and net income) and, we expect, will continue to be weak at least into the first half of 2010. we do not anticipate an improvement in lodging demand until the economy experiences sustained quarter-over-quarter growth. in addition, declines in demand and in consumer and business spending have resulted in rate reductions at our hotels, which have had a negative impact on our gross profit. the general economic trends discussed above make it difficult to predict our future operating results. we may experience further declines in hotel revenues or earnings at our properties beyond current expectations for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, greater than anticipated weakness in the economy, changes in travel patterns and the continued impact of the trends identified above. such reduced revenues or earnings also may reduce our working capital, impact our long-term business strategy, impact the value of our assets and our ability to meet certain covenants in our existing debt agreements. 18 table of contents current economic conditions have adversely effected the valuation of our hotels which may result in further impairment charges on our properties. we analyze our assets for impairment in several situations, including when a property has current or projected losses from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when other material trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred that indicate an asset carrying value may not be recoverable. for impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property carrying value over its fair value. our operating results for 2009 included $131 million of impairment charges related to our consolidated hotels and our european joint venture. as a result of continued economic weakness, we may incur additional impairment charges, which will negatively affect our results of operations. we can provide no assurance that any impairment loss recognized would not be material to our results of operations. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies. our revenues and the value of our properties are also subject to other conditions affecting the lodging industry. the lodging industry is subject to changes in the travel patterns of business and leisure travelers, both of which are affected by the strength of the economy, as discussed above, as well as other factors. changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results. our results of operations and any forecast we make, may be affected and can change based on the following risks: changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate; changes in business and leisure travel patterns; the effect of terrorist attacks and terror alerts in the united states and internationally, as well as other geopolitical disturbances; supply growth in markets where we own hotels, which may adversely affect demand at our properties; the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to our competition; the performance of the managers of our hotels; outbreaks of disease; changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and unionization of the labor force at our hotels. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our business and results of operations, our ability to obtain financing on reasonable and acceptable terms, our ability to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk and the market price of our common stock. the united states and global stock and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, all of which have caused market prices of the stocks of many companies to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective and outstanding debt financings to widen considerably. these circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, which made terms for certain financings materially less attractive, and, in some cases, resulted in the lack of availability of certain types of financing. while conditions in the credit markets have improved since their initial disruption, continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional short-term and long-term financing on reasonable terms or at all, which would negatively impact our liquidity and financial condition. a prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may negatively impact our ability to enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. these 19 table of contents disruptions in the financial markets also may adversely affect our credit rating and the market value of our common stock. while we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity with which to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our operating results worsen significantly and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. unlike regular c corporations, we must finance our growth and fund debt repayments largely with external sources of capital because we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (other than net capital gain) in order to qualify as a reit, including taxable income we recognize for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive cash. our ability to access the external capital we require could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including credit market conditions as discussed above, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, or decreases in the market price of host common stock. our ability to access additional capital also may be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, under certain circumstances, restrict our incurrence of debt and the payment of distributions. the occurrence of any of these factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us or at all and the failure to obtain necessary external capital could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future growth. we have substantial debt and may incur additional debt. as of february 17, 2010, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $5.4 billion. our substantial indebtedness has important consequences in that it currently requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, dividends and other general corporate purposes. additionally, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our debt or obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all; or affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. if our cash flow and working capital are not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we will have to raise additional funds through: sales of our equity; the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by host lp; or the sale of our assets. we cannot make any assurances that any of these sources of funds will be available to us or, if available, will be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient to meet our obligations or fulfill our business plan. 20 table of contents the terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which reduce our operational flexibility and create default risks. the documents governing the terms of our existing senior notes and our credit facility contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. these covenants restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: conduct acquisitions, mergers or consolidations, unless the successor entity in such transaction assumes our indebtedness; incur additional debt in excess of certain thresholds and without satisfying certain financial metrics; create liens securing indebtedness, unless an effective provision is made to secure our other indebtedness by such liens; sell assets without using the proceeds from such sales for certain permitted uses or to make an offer to repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness; make capital expenditures in excess of certain thresholds; pay dividends without satisfying certain financial metrics; and conduct transactions with affiliates other than on an arms length basis and, in certain instances, without obtaining opinions as to the fairness of such transactions. certain covenants in the credit facility also require us and our subsidiaries to meet financial performance tests. if we fail to meet such tests, the restrictive covenants in the applicable indenture(s), the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. for a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial condition . our ability to pay dividends may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness or preferred stock. we are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on our classes and series of capital stock. under the terms of host lp credit facility and senior notes indenture, distributions to host by host lp, upon which host depends in order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, are permitted only to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, host lp can satisfy certain financial covenant tests (concerning leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest coverage) and meet other requirements. under the terms of our outstanding class e preferred stock, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock unless all cumulative dividends have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for payment). the amount of aggregate dividends that accrue on the class e preferred stock each quarter is approximately $2.2 million. in the event that we fail to pay the accrued dividends on our class e preferred stock for any reason, including any restriction on paying such dividends under the terms of our debt instruments (as discussed above), dividends will continue to accrue on such preferred stock and we will be prohibited from paying any dividends on our common stock until all such accrued but unpaid dividends on our class e preferred stock have been paid (or funds for such payment have been set aside). defaulting on our mortgage debt could adversely affect our business. as of february 17, 2010, 11 of our hotels and assets related thereto are subject to mortgages in an aggregate amount of approximately $1.1 billion. although the debt is generally non-recourse to us, if these hotels do not produce adequate cash flow to service the debt secured by such mortgages, the mortgage lenders could call a 21 table of contents default on these assets. generally, we would expect to negotiate with the lender prior to the occurrence of a default to pursue other options, such as a deed in lieu of foreclosure. however, we may opt to allow such default to occur rather than make the necessary mortgage payments with funds from other sources. host lp senior notes indenture and credit facility contain cross-default provisions, which, depending upon the amount of secured debt in default, could cause a cross-default under both of these agreements. host lp credit facility, which contains a more restrictive cross-default provision than the senior notes indenture, provides that a credit facility default will occur in the event that host lp defaults on non-recourse secured indebtedness in excess of 1% (or approximately $150 million as of december 31, 2009) of its total assets (using undepreciated real estate book values). for this and other reasons, permitting a default could adversely affect our long-term business prospects. our mortgage debt contains provisions that may reduce our liquidity. certain of our mortgage debt requires that, to the extent cash flow from the hotels which secure such debt drops below stated levels, we escrow cash flow after the payment of debt service until operations improve above the stated levels. in some cases, the lender has the right under certain circumstances to apply the escrowed amount to the outstanding balance of the mortgage debt. if such provisions are triggered, there can be no assurance that the affected properties will achieve the minimum cash flow levels required to trigger a release of any escrowed funds. the amounts required to be escrowed may be material and may negatively affect our liquidity by limiting our access to cash flow after debt service from these mortgaged properties. an increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on our credit facility and on any floating rate debt we incur and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. interest payments for borrowings on our credit facility, the mortgages on our orlando world center marriott and jw marriott, washington, d.c. properties and the floating interest rate swaps linked to our newport beach marriott/ritz-carlton naples mortgage are based on floating rates. to the extent that we draw on the credit facility, an increase in interest rates will reduce our cash flow available for other corporate purposes, including investments in our portfolio. further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures and increase interest costs on any debt that is refinanced. we may from time to time enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts. while these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of assets as part of our business strategy. rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by moody investors service, standard &amp; poor ratings services and fitch ratings. these independent rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred stock at any time. such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. our expenses may not decrease if our revenue decreases. many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt-service payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the hotels. our expenses also will be affected by inflationary increases, and certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period and, in the event of a significant decrease in demand, we may not be able to reduce the size of hotel work-forces in order to decrease wages and benefits. our managers may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. any of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures also could adversely affect the future growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties. 22 table of contents our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. as part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire luxury and upper upscale hotel properties. we may acquire properties through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other reits or similar real estate entities. we anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from host equity offerings, issuance of limited partnership interests of host lp, advances under our credit facility, the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness and proceeds from the sales of assets. continued disruptions in credit markets may limit our ability to finance acquisitions and may limit the ability of purchasers to finance hotels and adversely affect our disposition strategy and our ability to use disposition proceeds to finance acquisitions. we may, from time to time, be in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from the acquisitions that we consummate. our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities. we do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. since federal income tax laws restrict reits and their subsidiaries from operating or managing hotels, we do not operate or manage our hotels. instead, we lease substantially all of our hotels to subsidiaries which qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries under applicable reit laws, and our taxable reit subsidiaries retain third-party managers to operate our hotels pursuant to management agreements. our cash flow from the hotels may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. while our taxable reit subsidiaries monitor the hotel managers performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. in addition, from time to time, we have had, and continue to have, differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. we generally resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. however, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in, or provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, all of which may result in conflicts of interest. as a result, our hotel managers have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interest. we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our consolidated hotels, we are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. from time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. we also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events. additionally, hotels where our managers have collective bargaining agreements with employees (approximately 21% of our current portfolio, by revenues) are more highly affected 23 table of contents by labor force activities than others. the resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. furthermore, labor agreements may limit the ability of our managers to reduce the size of hotel workforces during an economic downturn because collective bargaining agreements are negotiated between the managers of our hotels and labor unions. we do not have the ability to control the outcome of these negotiations. our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and potentially significant capital expenditures in order to remain competitive in the marketplace, maintain brand standards or to comply with applicable laws or regulations. the timing and costs of such renovations or improvements may result in reduced operating performance during construction and may not improve the return on these investments. in addition to capital expenditures required by our loan agreements or agreements with our hotel managers, we will need to make capital expenditures in order to remain competitive with other hotels, to maintain the economic value of our hotels and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. the timing of these improvements can affect hotel performance, particularly if the improvements require closures of a significant number of rooms or other features of the hotels, such as ballrooms, meeting space and restaurants. these capital improvements reduce the availability of cash for other purposes and are subject to cost overruns and delays. in addition, because we depend on external sources of capital, we may not have the necessary funds to invest and, if we fail to maintain our properties in accordance with brand standards set by our managers, the manager may terminate the management agreement. moreover, we may not necessarily realize a significant, or any, improvement in the performance of the hotels in which we make these investments. the ownership of hotels outside the united states and the expansion of our business into new markets outside of the united states will expose us to risks relating to owning hotels in those international markets. part of our business strategy is to expand our presence internationally through joint ventures. we currently own directly seven hotels located outside the united states and are a party to joint ventures that own 11 hotels in europe. we also are a party to another joint venture through which we are exploring investment opportunities throughout asia and australia. we may have difficulty managing our expansion into new geographic markets where we have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area, or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures and regulations. there are risks inherent in conducting business internationally, which include: employment laws and practices; tax laws which may provide for income or other tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to dividend withholding requirements or other restrictions; compliance with and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy; the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing and changes in the availability, cost and terms of such financing; adverse changes in local, political, economic and market conditions; insurance coverage related to terrorist events; changes in interest rates and/or the currency exchange rates; regulations regarding the incurrence of debts; and difficulties in complying with u.s. rules governing reits while operating internationally. any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to obtain all of the intended benefits of our international expansion. if we do not effectively manage our geographic expansion and successfully integrate the foreign hotels into our organization, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. 24 table of contents we may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. we have made a significant investment in a european joint venture which owns 11 hotels in europe and have formed another joint venture to explore investment opportunities in asia and australia. we may, from time to time, invest as a co-venturer in other entities holding hotel properties instead of purchasing hotel properties directly. co-venturers often share control over the operation of a joint venture. actions by a co-venturer could subject the assets to additional risk as a result of any of the following circumstances: our co-venturer might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint venture s, interests or goals; or our co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture in order to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. our management agreements could affect the sale or financing of our hotels. under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer our hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets specified other conditions. our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager consent. if the manager does not consent to such sale or financing, we may be precluded from taking actions in our best interest. future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect us. previous terrorist attacks in the united states and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries over the past several years. the impact that terrorist attacks in the united states or elsewhere could have on domestic and international markets and our business in particular is indeterminable, but it is possible that such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and/or our results of operations and financial condition as a whole. we may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. we obtain terrorism insurance as part of our all-risk property insurance program, as well as our general liability and directors and officers coverage. however, our all-risk policies have limitations, such as per occurrence limits, annual aggregate coverage limits and sublimits, all of which might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. also, all-risk insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act ( tripra ). property damage related to war and to nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. while tripra will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical perils, tripra does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. host has a wholly-owned captive insurance company through which it obtains a policy of nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) coverage. this captive insurer has the same ability as other insurance companies to apply to the u.s. treasury for reimbursement, as provided for in tripra, and is subject to the same deductibles and co-insurance obligations. this potential reimbursement applies to property insurance only, and not to general liability or directors and officers insurance, and there are no assurances that we will be able to recover any or all of our ncbr losses under this program. 25 table of contents we may be unable to satisfy the insurance requirements of our lenders. certain of our mortgage debt agreements for our properties and properties held by our european joint venture require us to maintain property insurance provided by carriers maintaining minimum ratings from standard &amp; poor s, a.m. best or other rating agencies. several of our mortgages contain requirements for the financial strength of insurers to be rated as high as aa by standard &amp; poor s. due to upheavals in the financial markets, the number of insurers that carry that rating has been decreasing for a number of years. in prior years, we have still been able to satisfy these requirements through the use of a fronting policy or credit wrap from an aa-rated insurer for a reasonable cost. with the stress in the financial markets, these arrangements have become scarce and expensive, and we are working with our lenders with respect to several mortgage loans in order to modify their financial strength requirements. in 2009, in all cases where our insurance carriers did not meet the minimum financial strength requirements, we were able to obtain waivers from the lenders or they have provided written assurances that they are satisfied with the makeup of our pool of insurance providers and thereby avoided the costs of obtaining a credit wrap. we cannot provide assurances that each of our lenders will continue to be satisfied with our insurance coverage, or with the rating levels of our carriers, or that our carriers will not be downgraded further. if any of these lenders becomes dissatisfied with our insurance coverage or the ratings of our insurance carriers, they may, on our behalf, elect to procure additional property insurance coverage that meets their ratings requirements. the cost of such additional property insurance would be borne by the property or properties securing the loans. also, the premiums associated with such coverage may be considerably higher than those associated with our current insurance coverage. some potential losses are not covered by insurance. we, or our hotel managers, carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. these policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar types of properties. generally, our all-risk property policies provide coverage that is available on a per-occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, has an overall limit, as well as various sub-limits, on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. sub-limits exist for certain types of claims, such as service interruption, debris removal, expediting costs, landscaping replacement and natural disasters such as earthquakes and hurricanes. the dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. in this regard, hotels in certain of our markets, including california and florida, have in the past been and continue to be particularly susceptible to damage from earthquakes and hurricanes. recovery under the applicable policies also is subject to substantial deductibles and complex calculations of lost business income. there is no assurance that this insurance, where maintained, will fully fund the re-building or restoration of a hotel that is impacted by an earthquake, hurricane, or other natural disaster, or the income lost as a result of the damage. our property policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case where the manager of one of our hotels provides this coverage, any such claims will be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the manager program for the same purpose. therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, or, in the case of hotels where coverage is provided by the management company, affects hotels owned by others, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached. each affected hotel may only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. we may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive complete coverage for risks that affect multiple properties, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, or certain types of terrorism. in addition, there are other risks, such as certain environmental hazards, that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify coverage. we also may encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. should a loss in excess of insured limits or an 26 table of contents uninsured loss occur, or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all or a part of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. in that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. finally, the current disruption in financial markets makes it more difficult to evaluate the stability and net assets or capitalization of insurance companies and any insurer ability to meet its claim payment obligations. litigation judgments or settlements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. we are involved in various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. we are vigorously defending each of these claims. on february 8, 2010, we received an adverse jury verdict in a trial in the 166th judicial district court of bexar county, texas involving the sale of land encumbered by a ground lease for the san antonio marriott rivercenter. see legal proceedings for more information on the verdict and see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other income statement line items for a discussion of the fourth quarter 2009 litigation accrual. there are no other claims seeking relief that, if granted, would have a significant effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we could, however, become the subject of claims by the operators of our hotels, individuals or companies who use our hotels, our investors, our joint venture partners or regulating entities, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. we may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to hotels or businesses we acquire. assets and entities that we have acquired, or may in the future acquire, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. in general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements may not survive long enough for us to become aware of such liabilities and seek recourse against our sellers. while we usually require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification is often limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. as a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with acquired hotels and entities may exceed our expectations, plus we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. finally, indemnification agreements between us and the sellers typically provide that the sellers will retain certain specified liabilities relating to the assets and entities acquired by us. while the sellers are generally contractually obligated to pay all losses and other expenses relating to such retained liabilities without regard to survival limitations, materiality thresholds, deductibles or caps on losses, there can be no guarantee that such arrangements will not require us to incur losses or other expenses as well. we depend on our key personnel. our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. none of our key personnel have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. we cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. while we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of the expansion of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the euro, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the british pound, the 27 table of contents polish zloty and the chilean peso. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and other foreign currencies, these hedging transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. to the extent that we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate revenues or earnings in other currencies, the conversion of those results into u.s. dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of those revenues or earnings. applicable reit laws may restrict certain business activities. as a reit, host is subject to various restrictions on its income, assets and activities. business activities that could be impacted by applicable reit laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units. due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will conduct certain business activities, including those mentioned above, in one or more of our taxable reit subsidiaries. our taxable reit subsidiaries are taxable as regular c corporations and are subject to federal, state, local, and, if applicable, foreign taxation on their taxable income. we may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are inherently illiquid. real estate properties generally cannot be sold quickly and, accordingly, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. the inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service our debt. in addition, under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits, we may be limited in our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive on the hotels situated on the leased properties. as of december 31, 2009, 35 of our hotels are subject to third-party ground leases (encumbering all or a portion of the hotel). these ground leases generally require periodic increases in ground rent payments, which payments are often based on economic indicators such as the consumer price index. our ability to pay ground rent could be adversely affected to the extent that our hotel revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. in addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would have to assume the ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. we believe that our properties comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws. unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and remediate hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and remediation costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. these laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a 28 table of contents building. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. compliance with other government regulations can be costly. our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including title iii of the americans with disabilities act, building codes and regulations pertaining to fire and life safety. compliance with those laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. these regulations may be changed from time-to-time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the acquisition contracts relating to some hotels limit our ability to sell or refinance those hotels. for reasons relating to federal and state income tax considerations of the former and current owners of three hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods, depending on the hotel. two of these agreements will expire in 2010 and the third will expire in 2028. as a result, even if it were in our best interest to sell these hotels or repay or otherwise reduce the level of the mortgage debt on such hotels, it may be difficult or costly to do so during their respective lock-out periods. in specified circumstances, we may agree to similar restrictions in connection with future hotel acquisitions. risks of ownership of host common stock there are limitations on the acquisition of host common stock and changes in control. host charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of host lp, and the maryland general corporation law contain a number of provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or host lp unit holders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: restrictions on transfer and ownership of host stock. to maintain host qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of host outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned in the last half of the taxable year, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, which, as defined in the internal revenue code (the code ), may include certain entities. because such ownership could jeopardize host qualification as a reit, a person cannot own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of an interest in a host lessee, nor can a host lessee of any partnership in which host is a partner own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of host shares, in each case unless exempted by host board of directors. host charter prohibits ownership, directly or by virtue of the attribution provisions of the code, by any person or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of shares of host outstanding common stock, preferred stock or any other stock, each considered as a separate class or series for this purpose. together, these limitations are referred to as the ownership limit. stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the intended acquiror of the stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares of stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the stock or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares of host stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of host stock in excess of the ownership limit. these restrictions on transfer and ownership will not apply if host board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a reit or that compliance with the restrictions on transfer is no longer required for host to qualify as a reit. 29 table of contents removal of board of directors. host charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. vacancies on host board of directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of the remaining directors (except that a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority vote of the entire board of directors) and, in the case of a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director, by the stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. host charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that we have authority to issue is 1,100,000,000, consisting of 1,050,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. host board of directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock, including common stock into preferred stock or vice versa, and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued. because the board of directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of stock without a stockholder vote, host board of directors may give the holders of any class or series of stock preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock. maryland business combination law. under the maryland general corporation law, specified business combinations, including specified issuances of equity securities, between a maryland corporation and any person who owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation then outstanding shares, or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time during the two year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the corporation (each, an interested stockholder ), or an affiliate of the interested stockholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. thereafter, any of these specified business combinations must be approved by 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of outstanding voting shares and by two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of voting shares other than voting shares held by the interested stockholder unless, among other conditions, the corporation common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the maryland general corporation law, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder. as a maryland corporation, host is subject to the maryland business combination statute. the statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors before the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. the board of directors has not granted any such exceptions at this time. maryland control share acquisition law. under the maryland general corporation law, control shares acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. control shares are voting shares which, if aggregated with all other voting shares owned by the acquiror or over which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (1) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (2) one-third or more but less than a majority or (3) a majority or more of the voting power. control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. a control share acquisition means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specified exceptions. our bylaws contain a provision exempting us from the control share provisions of the maryland general corporation law. there can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. 30 table of contents merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of host assets. under maryland law and host charter, subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer host assets within the meaning of the maryland general corporation law if approved (1) by host board of directors in the manner provided in the maryland general corporation law and (2) by host stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger of host with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing host form of organization from a corporation to a trust requires only the approval of host stockholders holding a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the merger. under the maryland general corporation law, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange is only required to be approved by a maryland corporation by its board of directors if the corporation is the successor entity. host voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. certain charter and bylaw amendments. host charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transfer and ownership of host stock, fixing the size of the board of directors within the range set forth in the charter, removal of directors, the filling of vacancies, exculpation and indemnification of directors, calling special stockholder meetings and others, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by host stockholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. other charter amendments generally require approval of the board and the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. as permitted under the maryland general corporation law, host bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend host bylaws. these provisions may make it more difficult to amend host charter and bylaws to alter the provisions described herein that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control or the acquisition of host common stock, without the approval of the board of directors. shares of host common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price of host common stock. sales of a substantial number of shares of host common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for host common stock. in addition, holders of units of limited partnership interest of host lp, whose op units may be redeemed, at host election, in exchange for common stock, will be able to sell those shares freely, unless the person is our affiliate and resale of the affiliate shares is not covered by an effective registration statement. as of december 31, 2009, there are approximately 11.7 million op units outstanding that are redeemable, at host election, for host common stock. further, a substantial number of shares of host common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans. we maintain two stock based compensation plans: the comprehensive stock plan, whereby we may award to participating employees and directors (i) restricted shares of common stock, (ii) options to purchase common stock and (iii) deferred shares of common stock, and an employee stock purchase plan. at december 31, 2009, there were approximately 19.2 million shares of common stock reserved and available for issuance under the comprehensive stock plan, and there were 5.7 million shares of restricted stock outstanding and 0.5 million options exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $5.46 per share. also as of december 31, 2009, host lp has outstanding $1,251 million principal amount of exchangeable senior debentures that could become exchangeable under certain conditions for shares of host common stock. the principal portion for $526 million face amount of such exchangeable debentures is cash-settled, and therefore no shares would be issued unless our share price exceeded the exchange rate for this series of debentures of $31.23 as of december 31, 2009. for another $400 million of such exchangeable debentures, host has the option to issue cash, shares of host common stock or any combination thereof in settlement of the debentures should they be presented for exchange. 31 table of contents in august 2009, host entered into a sales agency financing agreement with bny mellon capital markets, llc, through which host may issue and sell, from time to time, shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $400 million in at the market offerings. as of december 31, 2009, 28 million shares of common stock have been issued and sold pursuant to the program, and shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of approximately $110 million remain issuable from time to time under the agreement. any additional shares of common stock issued by host, whether issued under this program or otherwise, would be available in the future for sale in the public markets. we can make no prediction about the effect that future sales of common stock would have on the market price of host common stock. our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of host common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit equity securities is based primarily upon the market perception of the reit growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets. for that reason, shares of host common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of host common stock. our failure to meet the market expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of host common stock. market interest rates may affect the price of shares of host common stock. we believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a reit is the dividend rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher dividend rate. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of host stock to decrease. federal income tax risks to qualify as a reit, each of host and its subsidiary reits are required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain, regardless of available cash or outstanding obligations. to continue to qualify as a reit, host is required to distribute to its stockholders with respect to each year at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding net capital gain. to the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income and net capital gain for the taxable year, we will be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. in addition, we will be subject to a nondeductible 4% excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by us with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income and 95% of our net capital gain for that year and any undistributed taxable income from prior years less excess distributions from prior years. we intend to make distributions, subject to the availability of cash and in compliance with any debt covenants, to our stockholders in order to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid the imposition of a significant nondeductible 4% excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from host lp and its subsidiaries. there are differences in timing between our recognition of taxable income and our receipt of cash available for distribution due to, among other things, the seasonality of the lodging industry and the fact that some taxable income will be phantom income, which is taxable income that is not matched by cash flow. due to transactions entered into in years prior to host conversion to a reit, host could recognize substantial amounts of phantom income in the future. it is possible that these differences between taxable income and the receipt of related cash could require us to borrow funds or to issue additional equity to enable host to meet the distribution requirement and, therefore, to maintain our reit status, and to avoid the nondeductible 4% excise tax. in addition, because the reit distribution requirement prevents host from retaining earnings, we generally will be required to refinance debt at its maturity with additional debt or equity. it is possible that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would not be sufficient to meet host distribution and tax obligations. 32 table of contents host owns, through host lp, 100% of the outstanding common stock (and a portion of the outstanding preferred stock) of two entities that have elected to be treated as reits. each of these subsidiary reits of host will be subject to the same requirements that host must satisfy in order to qualify as a reit, including the distribution requirements described above. adverse tax consequences would apply if host or any of its subsidiary reits fail to qualify as a reit. we believe that host has been organized and has operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a reit under the code, commencing with our taxable year beginning january 1, 1999, and host currently intends to continue to operate as a reit during future years. in addition, host owns, through host lp, two entities as of december 31, 2009, that have elected to be treated as reits. as the requirements for qualification and taxation as a reit are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a reit are limited, no assurance can be provided that host currently qualifies as a reit or will continue to qualify as a reit or that each of host subsidiary reits qualify as a reit. if any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that host would fail to qualify as a reit unless we (or the subsidiary reit) could avail ourselves (itself) of certain relief provisions. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to an entity qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of its reit qualification. if host or any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, and any available relief provisions did not apply, the non-qualifying reit would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. moreover, unless entitled to statutory relief, the non-qualifying reit would not qualify as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which reit qualification was lost. any determination that host or one of its subsidiary reits does not qualify as a reit would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could materially reduce the value of our common stock. the additional tax liability of host or the subsidiary reit for the year, or years, in which the relevant entity did not qualify as a reit would reduce its net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to stockholders. furthermore, the non-qualifying entity would no longer be required to make any distributions to stockholders as a condition to reit qualification and all of its distributions to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary c corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. this means that if host were to fail to qualify as a reit, host stockholders currently taxed as individuals would be taxed on those dividends at capital gain rates and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case to applicable limitations under the code. host failure to qualify as a reit also would cause an event of default under host lp credit facility that could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due under the credit facility, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under host lp outstanding debt securities. if our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, each of host and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. to qualify as a reit, host must satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, such as rent. for the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our trs subsidiaries, which currently constitutes substantially all of host and each of our subsidiary reits gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. we believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will agree with this characterization. if the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, neither host nor any of our subsidiary reits would be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to reits and each would likely lose its reit status. 33 table of contents if our affiliated lessees fail to qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries, each of host and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. rent paid by a lessee that is a related party tenant of host will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to reits. we lease substantially all of our hotels to our subsidiary that is taxable as a regular c corporation and that has elected to be treated as a taxable reit subsidiary with respect to host. so long as any affiliated lessee qualifies as a taxable reit subsidiary, it will not be treated as a related party tenant. we believe that our affiliated lessees have qualified and will continue to qualify, and that the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits have qualified and will continue to qualify, to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will not challenge the status of a taxable reit subsidiary for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in disqualifying any of our affiliated lessees (including the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits) from treatment as a taxable reit subsidiary, it is possible that host or a subsidiary reit would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to reits and substantially all of its income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. if host or a subsidiary reit failed to meet either the asset or gross income tests, each would likely lose its reit status. despite the reit status of each of host and its subsidiary reits, we remain subject to various taxes. one of host subsidiary reits will be required to pay federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate on built-in gain recognized as a result of any sale of a hotel asset before the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period of assets, including certain hotels acquired from starwood and its affiliates in 2006. the total amount of gain on which the subsidiary reit would be subject to corporate income tax if all of its built-in gain assets were sold in a taxable transaction prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period would be material to it. in addition, we expect that we could recognize other substantial deferred tax liabilities in the future without any corresponding receipt of cash. notwithstanding its status as a reit, host and our subsidiaries (including our subsidiary reits) will be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on their income and property. for example, host and our subsidiary reits will pay tax on certain types of income that are not distributed and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable reit subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm length basis. moreover, the taxable reit subsidiaries of host and our subsidiary reits are taxable as regular c corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent they own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. host lp is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by host. if the irs were to challenge successfully host lp status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, host would cease to qualify as a reit and suffer other adverse consequences. we believe that host lp qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. as a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. instead, each of its partners, including host, is required to pay tax on such partner allocable share of its income. no assurance can be provided, however, that the irs will not challenge host lp status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating host lp as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, host would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to reits and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a reit. if host lp fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or host fails to qualify as a reit, either failure would cause an event of default under host lp credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under host lp outstanding debt securities. also, the failure of host lp to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes would cause it to become subject to federal, state and foreign corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including host. 34 table of contents as a reit, each of host and its subsidiary reits is subject to limitations on its ownership of debt and equity securities. subject to certain exceptions, a reit is generally prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer to the extent that (1) the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets, (2) the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities, or (3) the reit owns more than 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. a reit is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. however, a reit may not own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 25% of the value of the reit total assets. if host or any of its subsidiary reits were to violate these ownership limitations, each would likely lose its reit status. each of host or its subsidiary reits may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. the federal income tax provisions applicable to reits provide that any gain realized by a reit on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% excise tax. under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. we intend to hold our hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels consistent with our investment objectives. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% excise tax. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. on march 25, 2008, we entered into a joint venture, structured as a singapore corporation, to explore investment opportunities in various markets throughout asia, including india, china and japan, and australia (the asian joint venture ). we own a 25% interest in the asian joint venture. the initial term of the asian joint venture is for a period of seven years. due to the ownership structure of the asian joint venture, and our partner rights to cause the dissolution and liquidation of the asian joint venture at any time, it is not consolidated in our financial statements. currently, the asian joint venture does not own any hotels. we are currently the asset manager for two third-party owned hotel properties in asia in exchange for fees, and we are seeking additional asset management opportunities in asia. tax sharing arrangements . under tax sharing agreements with former affiliated companies (such as marriott international, hms host and barcel&oacute; crestline corporation), we are obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) relating to periods in which the companies were affiliated with us. for example, a taxing authority could adjust an item deducted by a former affiliate during the period that this former affiliate was owned by us. this adjustment could produce a tax liability that we may be obligated to pay under the tax sharing agreement. additionally, under the partnership agreement between host and host lp, host lp is obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) incurred by host, as well as any liabilities the irs may successfully assert against host. we do not expect any amounts paid under the tax sharing arrangements to be material. tax indemnification agreements. for reasons relating to federal and state income tax considerations of the former and current owners of three hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods depending on the hotel. two of these agreements will expire in 2010 and the third will expire in 2028. 72 table of contents guarantees . we have certain guarantees, which consist of commitments we have made to third parties for leases or debt, that are not on our books due to various dispositions, spin-offs and contractual arrangements, but that we have agreed to pay in the event of certain circumstances including default by an unrelated party. we consider the likelihood of any material payments under these guarantees to be remote. the largest guarantees (by dollar amount) are listed below: we remain contingently liable for rental payments on certain divested non-lodging properties. these primarily represent certain divested restaurants that were sold subject to our guarantee of the future rental payments. the aggregate amount of these future rental payments is approximately $20 million as of december 31, 2009. in 1997, we owned leisure park venture limited partnership, which owns and operates a senior living facility. we no longer have an ownership interest in the partnership, but we remain obligated under a guarantee of interest and principal with regard to $14.7 million of municipal bonds issued by the new jersey economic development authority through their maturity in 2027. however, to the extent we are required to make any payments under the guarantee, we have been indemnified by barcel&oacute; crestline corporation, who, in turn, is indemnified by the current owner of the facility. in connection with the sale of two hotels in january 2005, we remain contingently liable for the amounts due under the respective ground leases. the future minimum lease payments are approximately $13 million through the full term of the leases, including renewal options. we believe that any liability related to these ground leases is remote, and in each case, we have been indemnified by the purchaser of the hotel. information on other guarantees and other off-balance sheet arrangements may be found in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. contractual obligations. the table below summarizes our obligations for principal and estimated interest payments on our debt, future minimum lease payments on our operating and capital leases, projected capital expenditures and other long-term liabilities, each as of december 31, 2009 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years long-term debt obligations(1)(2) $ 7,570 $ 1,152 $ 1,602 $ 2,295 $ 2,521 capital lease obligations 2 1 1 operating lease obligations(3) 1,483 143 234 101 1,005 purchase obligations(4) 126 116 10 other long-term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet(5) 14 5 9 total $ 9,195 $ 1,412 $ 1,852 $ 2,396 $ 3,535 (1) the amounts shown include amortization of principal, debt maturities and estimated interest payments. interest payments have been included in the long-term debt obligations based on the weighted average interest rate. (2) the less than one year obligations include $346 million of our series m senior notes and the $124 million mortgage on the atlanta marriott marquis, which were repaid on january 20, 2010, and february 11, 2010, respectively. (3) future minimum lease payments have not been reduced by aggregate minimum sublease rentals from restaurants and the hpt subleases of approximately $7 million and $198 million, respectively, payable to us under non-cancelable subleases. (4) our only purchase obligations consist of commitments for capital expenditures at our hotels. under our contracts, we have the ability to defer some of these expenditures into later years. (5) the amounts shown include deferred management fees and the estimated amount of tax expense. under terms of our management agreements, we have deferred payment of management fees to our hotel managers for some of our properties that have not achieved the required income thresholds for payment of owner priority to us. the timing of the payments, if any, is based on future operations, the termination of the management agreement or the sale of the hotel, and, is therefore, not determinable. the estimated amount of tax expense relates to uncertain tax liabilities from prior years. 73 table of contents critical accounting policies our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with gaap, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. while we do not believe the reported amounts would be materially different, application of these policies involves the exercise of judgment and the use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to the impairment of long-lived assets, on an ongoing basis. we base our estimates on experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. all of our significant accounting policies are disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. the following represent certain critical accounting policies that require us to exercise our business judgment or make significant estimates. purchase price allocations to hotels . investments in hotel properties are stated at acquisition cost and allocated to land, property and equipment, identifiable intangible assets and assumed debt and other liabilities at fair value. any remaining unallocated acquisition costs would be treated as goodwill. property and equipment are recorded at fair value based on current replacement cost for similar capacity and allocated to buildings, improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment using appraisals and valuations performed by management and independent third parties. identifiable intangible assets are typically contracts including ground and retail leases and management and franchise agreements, which are recorded at fair value, although no value is generally allocated to contracts which are at market terms. above-market and below-market contract values are based on the present value of the difference between contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the contracts acquired and our estimate of the fair value of contract rates for corresponding contracts measured over the period equal to the remaining non-cancelable term of the contract. intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining non-cancelable term of the related agreements. in making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, we may utilize a number of sources that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of a property and other market data, including third-party appraisals and valuations. impairment testing. we analyze our assets for impairment throughout the year when events or circumstances occur that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and, as a result, recorded $97 million of property impairments in the first and second quarters of 2009. we consider a property to be impaired when the sum of future undiscounted cash flows over our remaining estimated holding period is less than the carrying value of the asset. for impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property carrying value over its fair value. to the extent that a property has a substantial remaining estimated useful life and management does not believe that it is more likely than not the property will be disposed of prior to the end of its useful life, it would be unusual for undiscounted cash flows to be insufficient to recover the property carrying value. in the absence of other factors, we assume that the estimable life is equal to the gaap depreciable life, because of the continuous property maintenance and improvement capital expenditures required under our management agreements. we adjust our assumptions with respect to the remaining useful life of the property if situations dictate otherwise, such as an expiring ground lease, or it is more likely than not that the asset will be sold prior to its previously expected useful life. we test for impairment in several situations, including when a property has current or projected loss from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when other events, trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred and an asset carrying value may not be recoverable. in the evaluation of the impairment of our assets, we make many assumptions and estimates, including: projected cash flows, both from operations and the eventual disposition; expected useful life and holding period; future required capital expenditures; and fair values, including consideration of capitalization rates, discount rates and comparable selling prices. 74 table of contents while we consider all of the above indicators, as a preliminary indicator to determine if the carrying value may not be recovered by undiscounted cash flows, we reviewed the actual year-to-date and the projected cash flows from operations to identify properties with actual or projected annual operating losses or minimal operating profit as of december 31, 2009. the projected cash flows are prepared by our third-party managers and consider items such as booking pace, occupancy, room rate and property-level operating costs. we review the projections and may adjust them as we deem appropriate. as a result of our review, we identified 16 properties that required further consideration of property and market specific conditions or factors to determine if the property was impaired using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. we assumed a 2.5% rate of growth of projected cash flows over the estimated useful life of the individual properties, which growth rate was adjusted lower than the historical growth rate in order to reflect the current economic climate. management considered a range of revpar and operating margin declines compared to the prior year operating results in evaluating the projected cash flows from operations. based on this test, no properties exhibited an impaired value at december 31, 2009. for purposes of this test, if we had assumed a growth rate of 0%, two of the 16 properties identified above would have required further analysis, including testing the property using a probability weighted undiscounted cash flow analysis. management believes its assumptions and estimates reflect current market conditions. management will adjust these measures as appropriate for changes therein in future periods and we could incur additional impairment changes if economic conditions continue to remain weak. other-than-temporary impairment of an investment. we review our equity method investments for other-than-temporary impairment based on the occurrence of any triggering events that would indicate that the carrying amount of the investment exceeds its fair value on an other-than-temporary basis. triggering events can include a decline in distributable cash flows from the investment, a change in the expected useful life or other significant events which would decrease the value of the investment. our investments primarily consist of joint ventures which own hotel properties; therefore, we will generally have few observable inputs and will determine the fair value based on a discounted cash flow analysis of the investment, as well as considering the impact of other elements (i.e. control premiums, etc.). we use certain inputs, such as available third-party appraisals and forecast net operating income for the hotel properties, to estimate the expected cash flows. if an equity method investment is impaired, a loss is recorded for the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the investment. classification of assets as held for sale . our policy for the classification of a hotel as held for sale is intended to ensure that the sale of the asset is probable, will be completed within one year and that actions required to complete the sale are unlikely to change or that the planned sale will be withdrawn. this policy is consistent with our experience with real estate transactions under which the timing and final terms of a sale are frequently not known until purchase agreements are executed, the buyer has a significant deposit at risk and no financing contingencies exist which could prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner. specifically, we will typically classify properties that we are actively marketing as held for sale when all of the following conditions are met: our board of directors has approved the sale (to the extent the dollar amount of the sale requires board approval); a binding agreement to purchase the property has been signed; the buyer has committed a significant amount of non-refundable cash; and no significant contingencies exist which could cause the transaction not to be completed in a timely manner. to the extent a property is classified as held for sale and its fair value less selling costs is lower than the net book value of the property, we will record an impairment loss. see the discussion above concerning the use of estimates and judgments in determining fair values for impairment tests. depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation expense is based on the estimated useful life of our assets and amortization expense for leasehold improvements is the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful life of the related assets. the lives of the assets are based on a number of assumptions including cost and 75 table of contents timing of capital expenditures to maintain and refurbish the assets, as well as specific market and economic conditions. while management believes its estimates are reasonable, a change in the estimated lives could affect depreciation expense and net income (loss) or the gain or loss on the sale of any of our hotels. valuation of deferred tax assets. we have approximately $71 million, net of a valuation allowance of $37 million, of consolidated deferred tax assets as of december 31, 2009. the objective of financial accounting and reporting standards for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in a company financial statements or tax returns. we have considered various factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future projected taxable income and tax planning strategies in determining a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets, and we believe that it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize the $71 million of deferred tax assets in the future. when a determination is made that all, or a portion, of the deferred tax assets may not be realized, an increase in income tax expense would be recorded in that period. valuation of derivative contracts. we will occasionally enter into derivative products including interest rate and foreign currency swaps, caps and collars. derivative instruments are subject to fair value reporting at each reporting date and the increase or decrease in fair value is recorded in net income (loss) or accumulated other comprehensive income, based on the applicable hedge accounting guidance. we estimate the fair value of these instruments through the use of third party valuations, which utilize the market standard methodology of netting the discounted future cash receipts and the discounted expected cash payments. we incorporate credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both our own nonperformance risk and the respective counterparty nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. in adjusting the fair value of our derivative contracts for the effect of nonperformance risk, we have considered the impact of netting any applicable credit enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts and guarantees. the variable cash flow streams are based on an expectation of future interest and exchange rates derived from observed market interest and exchange rate curves. the values of these instruments will change over time as cash receipts and payments are made and as market conditions change. any event that impacts the level of actual and expected future interest or exchange rates will impact our valuations. the fair value of our derivatives is likely to fluctuate from year to year based on changing levels of interest and exchange rates and shortening terms to maturity. stock compensation. we recognize costs resulting from our share-based payment transactions in our financial statements over their vesting periods. we classify share-based payment awards granted in exchange for employee services as either equity awards or liability awards. the classification of our restricted stock awards as either an equity award or a liability award is based upon cash settlement options. equity classified awards are measured based on the fair value on the date of grant. liability classified awards are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. the value of these restricted stock awards, less estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award the requisite service period (usually the vesting period). no compensation cost is recognized for awards for which employees do not render the requisite service. these awards were classified as liability awards due to settlement features that allowed the recipient to have a percentage of the restricted stock awards withheld to meet tax requirements in excess of the minimum required by tax statutes. during 2009, we implemented a new employee stock plan for our senior management that included the following awards: restricted stock awards with vesting based on market conditions. these awards are classified as liability awards due to their cash settlement features. therefore, they are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. we utilize a simulation, or monte carlo model, to determine the fair value of our restricted stock awards with vesting based on market conditions. the utilization of this model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates, the risk profile of our common shares compared to our peer group and the amount of our awards expected to be forfeited. 76 table of contents restricted stock awards with vesting based on performance conditions. these awards are earned based on an employee achieving a specified performance target, which will be based on the employee specific management business objectives. compensation cost will be recognized when the achievement of the performance condition is considered probable of achievement. if a performance condition has more than one outcome that is probable of achievement, recognition of compensation cost will be based on the condition that is the most likely outcome. these awards are also considered liability awards due to the cash-settlement provisions. therefore, the value of the shares to be issued will be based on the share price on the reporting date. stock option awards. the stock option awards are equity awards, as they do not include cash settlement features. therefore, the value of the award is determined on the grant date using a binomial pricing model and is not adjusted for future changes in the fair value. vesting for these awards is based on service conditions. the utilization of the binomial model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates and the amount of our awards expected to be forfeited. other awards. during 2009, we granted restricted stock awards to all of our employees with vesting based on service conditions. these awards are equity classified awards as they do not have an option for excess tax withholding similar to that for awards to senior management. consolidation policies. judgment is required with respect to the consolidation of partnership and joint venture entities in the evaluation of control, including assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests that are not controllable through voting interests. we have investments in entities that own hotel properties and other investments which we record using the equity method of accounting. these entities are considered to be voting interest entities. the debt on these investments is non-recourse to us and the effect of their operations on our results of operations is not material. while we do not believe we are required to consolidate any of our current partnerships or joint ventures presented under the equity method, if we were required to do so, then all of the results of operations and the assets and liabilities would be included in our financial statements. application of new accounting standards. business combinations. this new accounting pronouncement provides principles on the recognition and measurement of the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and goodwill acquired in a business combination. the pronouncement particularly requires the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and non-controlling interests to be measured at the acquisition date fair value, including contingent considerations. furthermore, the pronouncement prohibits acquisition-related costs, such as due diligence, legal and accounting fees, from being applied in determining the fair value of the acquired assets. we adopted the provisions of this pronouncement on january 1, 2009. we do not believe the adoption of this pronouncement will materially affect the recognition and measurement related to our future business combinations. consolidation of variable interest entities. the fasb recently amended its guidance surrounding a company analysis to determine whether any of its variable interests constitute controlling financial interests in a variable interest entity. this analysis identifies the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity as the enterprise that has both of the following characteristics: the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity economic performance. the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. additionally, an enterprise is required to assess whether it has an implicit financial responsibility to ensure that a variable interest entity operates as designed when determining whether it has the power to direct the 77 table of contents activities of the variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity economic performance. the new guidance also requires ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity. the guidance is effective for the first annual reporting period that begins after november 15, 2009 and, accordingly, we will reevaluate our interests in variable interest entities for the period beginning on january 1, 2010 to determine that the entities are reflected properly in the financial statements as investments or consolidated entities. we do not anticipate that the implementation of this guidance will have any material effect on our financial statements. comparable hotel operating statistics we present certain operating statistics (i.e., revpar, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses and adjusted operating profit) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. we define our comparable hotels as properties (i) that are owned or leased by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations for the entirety of the reporting periods being compared and (ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or business interruption, or undergone large-scale capital projects during the reporting periods being compared. all of the 111 hotels that we owned on december 31, 2009 have been classified as comparable hotels. the operating results of the eight hotels we disposed of in 2009 and 2008 are not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein. moreover, because these statistics and operating results are for our hotel properties, they exclude results for our non-hotel properties and other real estate investments. we evaluate the operating performance of our comparable hotels based on both geographic region and property type. these divisions are generally consistent with groupings recognized in the lodging industry. geographic regions consist of the following (only states in which we own hotels are listed): pacific california, hawaii, oregon and washington; mountain arizona and colorado; north central illinois, indiana, michigan, minnesota, missouri and ohio; south central louisiana, tennessee and texas; new england connecticut, massachusetts and new hampshire; mid-atlantic pennsylvania, new jersey and new york; dc metro maryland, virginia and washington, d.c.; atlanta georgia and north carolina; florida florida; and international canada, mexico and chile. property types consist of the following: urban hotels located in primary business districts of major cities; suburban hotels located in office parks or smaller secondary markets; resort/conference hotels located in resort/conference destinations such as arizona, florida, hawaii and southern california; and airport hotels located at or near airports. 78 table of contents reporting periods. for consolidated statement of operations. the results we report are based on results of our hotels reported to us by our hotel managers. our hotel managers use different reporting periods. marriott, the manager of a significant percentage of our properties, uses a year ending on the friday closest to december 31 and reports twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year for its marriott-managed hotels. in contrast, other managers of our hotels, such as hyatt and starwood, report results on a monthly basis. host, as a reit, is required by federal income tax law to report results on a calendar year. as a result, we elected to adopt the reporting periods used by marriott modified so that our fiscal year always ends on december 31 to comply with reit rules. our first three quarters of operations end on the same day as marriott but our fourth quarter ends on december 31 and our full year results, as reported in our statement of operations, always includes the same number of days as the calendar year. two consequences of the reporting cycle we have adopted are: (1) quarterly start dates will usually differ between years, except for the first quarter which always commences on january 1, and (2) our first and fourth quarters of operations and year-to-date operations may not include the same number of days as reflected in prior years. for example, set forth below are the quarterly start and end dates for 2010, 2009 and 2008. note that the second and third quarters of each year both reflect twelve weeks of operations. in contrast, the first and fourth quarters reflect differing days of operations. 2010 2009 2008 start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days first quarter january 1 march 26 85 january 1 march 27 86 january 1 march 21 81 second quarter march 27 june 18 84 march 28 june 19 84 march 22 june 13 84 third quarter june 19 september 10 84 june 20 september 11 84 june 14 september 5 84 fourth quarter september 11 december 31 112 september 12 december 31 111 september 6 december 31 117 while the reporting calendar we adopted is more closely aligned with the reporting calendar used by marriott, another consequence of our calendar is we are unable to report the month of operations that ends after our fiscal quarter-end until the following quarter because our hotel managers using a monthly reporting period do not make mid-month results available to us. hence, the month of operation that ends after our fiscal quarter-end is included in our quarterly results of operations in the following quarter for those hotel managers (covering approximately 43% of total revenues of our hotels). as a result, our quarterly results of operations include results from hotel managers reporting results on a monthly basis as follows: first quarter (january, february), second quarter (march to may), third quarter (june to august) and fourth quarter (september to december). while this does not affect full year results, it does affect the reporting of quarterly results. for hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results. in contrast to the reporting periods for our consolidated statement of operations, our hotel operating statistics (i.e., revpar, average daily rate and average occupancy) and our comparable hotel results are reported based on the reporting cycle used by marriott for our marriott-managed hotels. however, for years such as 2008, where marriott reports its operations based on a 53-week year and a fourth quarter of 17 weeks, for comparable purposes, we exclude the extra week of operations, and we still reflect 52 weeks for the full year and 16 weeks for the fourth quarter. this facilitates year-to-year comparisons, as each reporting period will be comprised of the same number of days of operations as in the prior year. this means, however, that the reporting periods we use for hotel operating statistics and our comparable hotel results will typically differ slightly from the reporting periods used for our statements of operations for the first and fourth quarters and the full year. set forth below are the quarterly start and end dates that are used for our hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results reported herein. results from hotel managers reporting on a monthly basis are included in our operating statistics and comparable hotel results consistent with their reporting in our consolidated statement of operations. 79 table of contents hotel result reporting periods for operating statistics and comparable hotel results for marriott managed properties 2010 2009 2008 start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days first quarter january 2 march 26 84 january 3 march 27 84 december 29 march 21 84 second quarter march 27 june 18 84 march 28 june 19 84 march 22 june 13 84 third quarter june 19 september 10 84 june 20 september 11 84 june 14 september 5 84 fourth quarter september 11 december 31 112 september 12 january 1 112 september 6 december 26 112 non-gaap financial measures we use certain non-gaap financial measures, which are measures of our historical financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with gaap, within the meaning of applicable sec rules. they are as follows: (i) ffo per diluted share, and (ii) comparable hotel operating results. the following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful measures of our performance. ffo per diluted share. we present ffo per diluted share as a non-gaap measure of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with gaap). we calculate ffo per diluted share for a given operating period as our ffo (defined as set forth below) for such period divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period. nareit defines ffo as net income (calculated in accordance with gaap) excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate-related depreciation and amortization and adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. ffo is presented on a per share basis after making adjustments for the effects of dilutive securities, including the payment of preferred stock dividends, in accordance with nareit guidelines. we believe that ffo per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that presentation of ffo per diluted share, when combined with the primary gaap presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. by excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization and gains and losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of lesser significance in evaluating current performance, we believe that such a measure can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and between other reits, even though ffo per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. as noted by nareit in its april 2002 white paper on funds from operations, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. for these reasons, nareit adopted the definition of ffo in order to promote an industry-wide measure of reit operating performance. we calculate ffo per diluted share, in accordance with standards established by nareit, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the nareit definition of ffo or calculate ffo per diluted share in accordance with nareit guidance. in addition, although ffo per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other reits, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-reits. this information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations, or any other operating performance measure prescribed by gaap. cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the ffo per diluted share presentations. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows include depreciation, capital expenditures and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-gaap financial 80 table of contents measures. ffo per diluted share should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. in addition, ffo per diluted share does not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to our stockholders benefit. the following tables provide a reconciliation of net income available to common shareholders per share to ffo per diluted share (in millions, except per share amounts): reconciliation of net income available to common stockholders to funds from operations per diluted share year ended december 31, 2009 2008 net income (loss) $ (258 ) $ 414 less: net (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interests 6 (19 ) dividends on preferred stock (9 ) (9 ) net income (loss) available to common stockholders (261 ) 386 adjustments: gains on dispositions, net of taxes (31 ) (23 ) amortization of deferred gains and other property transactions, net of taxes (4 ) (4 ) depreciation and amortization(a) 604 578 partnership adjustments 4 27 ffo of non-controlling interests of host lp (7 ) (37 ) adjustments for dilutive securities(b): assuming conversion of 2004 exchangeable senior debentures 26 assuming deduction of gain recognized for the repurchase of 2004 exchangeable debentures(c) (2 ) (8 ) diluted ffo (d)(e) $ 303 $ 945 diluted weighted average shares outstanding (d)(e) 589.0 552.8 diluted ffo per share (d)(e) $ .51 $ 1.71 (a) in accordance with the guidance on ffo per diluted share provided by the national association of real estate investment trusts, we do not adjust net income for the non-cash impairment charges when determining our ffo per diluted share. (b) ffo per diluted share in accordance with nareit is adjusted for the effects of dilutive securities. dilutive securities may include shares granted under comprehensive stock plans, preferred op units held by non-controlling partners, exchangeable debt securities and other non-controlling interests that have the option to convert their limited partnership interest to common op units. no effect is shown for securities if they are anti-dilutive. (c) during the first quarter of 2009 and fourth quarter of 2008, we repurchased $75 million and $100 million face amount, respectively, of the 2004 debentures with a carrying value of $72 million and $96 million for $69 million and $82 million, respectively. the adjustments to dilutive ffo related to the 2004 debentures repurchased during the year include the $3 million and $14 million gain on repurchase in 2009 and 2008, respectively, net of interest expense on the repurchased debentures. 81 table of contents (d) ffo per diluted share and earnings per diluted share were significantly affected by certain transactions, the effects of which are shown in the table below (in millions, except per share amounts): year ended december 31 2009 2008 net income (loss) ffo net income (loss) ffo gain on dispositions, net of taxes $ 31 $ $ 23 $ loss on litigation(1) (41 ) (41 ) non-cash impairment charges (131 ) (131 ) gain (loss) on debt extinguishments and the cmbs defeasance(2) 7 7 (gain) loss attributable to non-controlling interests(3) 3 3 (1 ) total $ (131 ) $ (162 ) $ 22 $ diluted shares 587.2 589.7 527.4 552.8 per diluted share $ (.23 ) $ (.28 ) $ .04 $ (1) includes the accrual of a potential litigation loss in the fourth quarter of 2009. (2) includes gains/losses associated with the repurchase of our 2007 debentures and the repayment of the term loan. additionally, as prescribed by the sharing agreement with the successor borrower in connection with the 2007 defeasance of a $514 million collateralized mortgage-backed securities, we received $7 million and recorded the gain as a reduction of interest expense in the second quarter 2009. the loan had an initial maturity date of september 15, 2009, and was prepayable beginning on may 1, 2009. we had been legally released from all obligations under the loan upon the defeasance in 2007. (3) represents the portion of the significant items attributable to non-controlling partners of host lp. (e) ffo per diluted share and loss per diluted share include a $12 million tax benefit, or $.02 per common share, related to the reversal of an excess deferred tax liability that was established in prior periods associated with our investment in cbm jv, which was sold on september 11, 2009. comparable hotel operating results. we present certain operating results for our hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses, and adjusted operating profit, on a comparable hotel, or same store basis as supplemental information for investors. we present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate-level costs and expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. we eliminate corporate-level costs and expenses to arrive at property-level results because we believe property-level results provide investors with more specific insight into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels. we eliminate depreciation and amortization, because even though depreciation and amortization are property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. as noted earlier, because real estate values historically have risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. as a result of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses or operating profit and these comparable hotel operating results should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance. we present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period-to-period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel reits and hotel owners. in particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increases or decreases in revenues and/or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. while management believes 82 table of contents that presentation of comparable hotel results is a same store supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or assess the operating performance of these hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable portfolio hotel results. for these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of gaap operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management. the following table presents certain operating results and statistics for our comparable hotels for the periods presented herein: comparable hotel results (in millions, except hotel statistics) year ended december 31, 2009 2008 number of hotels 111 111 number of rooms 61,168 61,168 percent change in comparable hotel revpar (19.9 )% comparable hotel sales room $ 2,533 $ 3,166 food and beverage 1,266 1,591 other 321 362 comparable hotel sales(a) 4,120 5,119 comparable hotel expenses room 694 779 food and beverage 957 1,164 other 160 189 management fees, ground rent and other costs 1,438 1,639 comparable hotel expenses(b) 3,249 3,771 comparable hotel adjusted operating profit 871 1,348 non-comparable hotel results, net(c) 3 (1 ) office buildings and select service properties, net(d) 1 7 comparable hotels classified as held-for-sale, net 1 depreciation and amortization (662 ) (557 ) corporate and other expenses (116 ) (58 ) operating profit $ 98 $ 739 (a) the reconciliation of total revenues per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel sales is as follows: year ended december 31, 2009 2008 revenues per the consolidated statements of operations $ 4,158 $ 5,139 hotel sales for comparable hotels classified as held-for-sale 11 12 business interruption revenues for comparable hotels 7 hotel sales for the property for which we record rental income, net 42 51 rental income for office buildings and select service hotels (84 ) (91 ) adjustment for hotel sales for comparable hotels to reflect marriott fiscal year for marriott-managed hotels (7 ) 1 comparable hotel sales $ 4,120 $ 5,119 (b) the reconciliation of operating costs per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel expenses is as follows: 83 table of contents year ended december 31, 2009 2008 operating costs and expenses per the consolidated statements of operations $ 4,060 $ 4,400 hotel expenses for comparable hotels classified as held-for-sale 12 12 hotel expenses for the property for which we record rental income 42 51 rent expense for office buildings and select service hotels (83 ) (84 ) adjustment for hotel expenses for comparable hotels to reflect marriott fiscal year for marriott-managed hotels (4 ) depreciation and amortization (662 ) (557 ) corporate and other expenses (116 ) (58 ) gain on insurance settlement 7 comparable hotel expenses $ 3,249 $ 3,771 (c) non-comparable hotel results, net, includes the following items: (i) the results of operations of our non-comparable hotels whose operations are included in our consolidated statements of operations as continuing operations and (ii) the difference between the number of days of operations reflected in the comparable hotel results and the number of days of operations reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. (d) represents rental income less rental expense for select service properties and office buildings. 84 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. currently, we have no derivative financial instruments held for trading purposes. we use derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks. currently, our interest payments on 88% of our debt are fixed in nature (this percentage does not include $300 million of mortgage debt for which we have swapped fixed interest payments for floating interest payments), which largely mitigates the effect of changes in interest rates on our cash interest payments. valuations for mortgage debt and the credit facility are determined based on the expected future payments, discounted at risk-adjusted rates. senior notes and the exchangeable senior debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increase or decrease by 100 basis points, interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, our future earnings and cash flows by approximately $7 million in 2010. the table below presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value ($ in millions) liabilities debt: fixed rate(1)(2) $ 767 $ 95 $ 518 $ 715 $ 952 $ 2,371 $ 5,418 $ 5,567 average interest rate 6.88 % 6.92 % 6.96 % 6.97 % 7.12 % 7.47 % variable rate variable rate $ 2 $ 303 $ 3 $ 111 $ $ $ 419 $ 423 average interest rate(3) 4.79 % 5.37 % 7.50 % 7.50 % % % total debt $ 5,837 $ 5,990 interest rate derivative interest rate swaps fixed to variable $ $ $ $ $ 300 $ $ 300 $ 269 average pay rate(3) 3.27 % 3.27 % 3.27 % 3.27 % 3.27 % % average receive rate 5.531 % 5.531 % 5.531 % 5.531 % 5.531 % % (1) the 2010 maturities include $346 million of our series m senior notes and the $124 million mortgage on the atlanta marriott marquis, which were repaid on january 20, 2010, and february 11, 2010, respectively. after these repayments, 2010 debt maturities total $334 million. (2) the amounts are net of unamortized discounts and premiums. (3) the interest rate for our floating rate payments is based on the rate in effect as of december 31, 2009. no adjustments are made for forecasted changes in the rate. fair value interest rate hedges. during 2009, we entered into three interest rate swap agreements for a notional amount totaling $300 million related to the ritz-carlton, naples and newport beach marriott hotel &amp; spa mortgage loan in the amount of $300 million. we entered into the derivative instruments to hedge changes in the fair value of the fixed-rate mortgage that occur as a result of changes in the 3-month libor rate. as a result, we will pay a floating interest rate equal to the 3-month libor, plus a spread which ranges from 2.7% to 3.2%, as opposed to the fixed rate of 5.531%, on the notional amount of $300 million through march 1, 2014. we have designated these derivatives as fair value hedges. the derivatives are valued based on the prevailing market yield 85 table of contents curve on the date of measurement. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. as of december 31, 2009, we recorded a liability of $1 million related to the fair value of the swaps. at the same time, we record the change in the fair value of the underlying debt due to change in the 3-month libor rate as a reduction to the carrying amount of the debt, or $.7 million, at december 31, 2009. the difference between the change in the fair value of the swap and the change in the fair value in the underlying debt is considered the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship. we recognized a loss of $.3 million related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship in 2009. changes in the fair value of these instruments are recognized as gains/losses on derivatives. interest rate cap derivative. in connection with the mortgage debt secured by the jw marriott, washington, d.c., we entered into an interest rate cap agreement which caps the libor rate at 3% through the life of the loan. at december 31, 2009, the variable interest rate on the loan was 7.5% and the fair value of the cap was $1.8 million. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the cap. we recognized a gain of $.3 million based on the changes in the fair value of the derivative during the year. changes in the fair value of these instruments are recognized as gains/losses on derivatives. exchange rate sensitivity as we have non-u.s. operations (specifically, the ownership of hotels in canada, mexico and chile and an investment in our european joint venture), currency exchange risk arises as a normal part of our business. to manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-u.s. hotels, where possible, we may enter into forward or option contracts. the foreign currency exchange agreements that we have entered into were strictly to hedge foreign currency risk and not for trading purposes. during 2008, we entered into three foreign currency forward purchase contracts totaling 60 million (approximately $88 million) to hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in the european joint venture. pursuant to these transactions, we will sell the euro amount, and receive the u.s. dollar amount on the forward purchase date. these derivatives are considered a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation and are marked-to-market with changes in fair value and recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income within the equity portion of our balance sheet. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. the following table summarizes our three foreign currency purchase contracts (in millions): transaction date transaction amount in euros transaction amount in dollars forward purchase date fair value as of december 31, 2009 change in fair value 2009 2008 february 2008 30 $ 43 august 2011 $ (.1 ) $ (1.8 ) $ 1.7 february 2008 15 22 february 2013 .7 (1.2 ) 1.9 may 2008 15 23 may 2014 1.1 (1.4 ) 2.5 total 60 $ 88 $ 1.7 $ (4.4 ) $ 6.1 86 table of contentsrisk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. financial risks and risks of operation our revenues and the value of our properties are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. the lodging industry is subject to changes in the travel patterns of business and leisure travelers, both of which are affected by the strength of the economy as well as other factors. changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results. during the recession in 2008 and 2009, overall travel was reduced, which had a significant effect on our results of operations. while operating results improved during 2010, uncertainty in the strength and direction of the recovery and continued high unemployment have hampered the pace of the overall economic recovery. therefore, there can be no assurance that any increases in hotel revenues or earnings at our properties will continue for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, slower than anticipated growth in the economy and changes in travel patterns. our results of operations and any forecast we make, may be affected and can change based on the following risks affecting the lodging industry: changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate; changes in business and leisure travel patterns; the effect of terrorist attacks and terror alerts in the united states and internationally, as well as other geopolitical disturbances; supply growth in markets where we own hotels, which may adversely affect demand at our properties; the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to competing hotels; the performance of the managers of our hotels; outbreaks of disease; changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and unionization of the labor force at our hotels. a reduction in our revenue or earnings as a result of the above risks may reduce our working capital, impact our long-term business strategy, and impact the value of our assets and our ability to meet certain covenants in our existing debt agreements. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our business and results of operations, our ability to obtain financing on reasonable and acceptable terms, and our ability to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. the united states and global equity and credit markets experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions in 2008 and 2009, all of which caused market prices of the stocks of many companies to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective and outstanding debt financings to widen considerably. these circumstances impacted liquidity in the financial markets, which made terms for financings less attractive, and, in some cases, resulted in the lack of availability of certain types of financing. while conditions in the credit markets have improved, a subsequent prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may negatively impact our ability to enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. disruptions in the financial markets also may adversely affect our credit rating, the market value of host inc. common stock, and the value of host l.p. op units. while we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity with which to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our operating results worsen significantly and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 18 table of contents economic conditions may adversely affect the value of our hotels, which may result in impairment charges on our properties. we analyze our assets for impairment in several situations, including when a property has current or projected losses from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life or when other material trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred, such that an asset carrying value may not be recoverable. for impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property carrying value over its fair value. we did not record any impairment charges in 2010, but could in the future, which will negatively affect our results of operations. we can provide no assurance that any impairment loss recognized would not be material to our results of operations. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies. we depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. unlike regular c corporations, we must finance our growth and fund debt repayments largely with external sources of capital because host inc. is required to distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain) in order to qualify as a reit, including taxable income recognized for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which it does not receive cash. funds used by host inc. to make required distributions are provided through distributions from host l.p. our ability to access external capital could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including credit market conditions, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, or decreases in the market price of host inc. common stock. our ability to access additional capital also may be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness which, under certain circumstances, restrict our incurrence of debt and the payment of dividends and host l.p. distributions. the occurrence of any of these factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain external capital on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future growth. we have substantial debt and may incur additional debt. as of december 31, 2010, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $5.5 billion. our substantial indebtedness requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, dividends and distributions and other general corporate needs. additionally, our substantial indebtedness could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our debt or to obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate needs on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all; or affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. if our cash flow and working capital are not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we will have to raise additional funds through: sales of our op units; the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by host l.p.; or the sale of our assets. we cannot make any assurances that any of these sources of funds will be available to us or, if available, will be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient to meet our obligations or fulfill our business plan. under certain circumstances we would be required to use the cash from some of the events described above to repay other indebtedness. 19 table of contents the terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and these restrictions reduce our operational flexibility and create default risks. the documents governing the terms of our existing senior notes and our credit facility contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. these covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to: conduct acquisitions, mergers or consolidations, unless the successor entity in such transaction assumes our indebtedness; incur additional debt in excess of certain thresholds and without satisfying certain financial metrics; create liens securing indebtedness, unless an effective provision is made to secure our other indebtedness by such liens; sell assets without using the proceeds from such sales for certain permitted uses or to make an offer to repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness; make capital expenditures in excess of certain thresholds; make distributions without satisfying certain financial metrics; and conduct transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis and, in certain instances, without obtaining opinions as to the fairness of such transactions. certain covenants also require us and our subsidiaries to meet financial performance tests. if we fail to meet such tests, the restrictive covenants in the applicable indenture(s), the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. for a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial condition. our ability to pay dividends and to make distributions may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness or preferred units. we are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on classes and series of host inc. capital stock and host l.p. payment of distributions on its classes of units. under the terms of host l.p. credit facility and senior notes indenture, distributions to host inc. by host l.p., upon which host inc. depends in order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, and distributions by host l.p. to other unitholders are permitted only to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, host l.p. can satisfy certain financial covenant tests (concerning leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest coverage) and meet other requirements. under the terms of host l.p. outstanding preferred op units, we are not permitted to make distributions on our common op units unless all cumulative distributions have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for payment) on our preferred op units. in the event that we fail to pay the accrued distributions on our preferred op units for any reason, including any restriction on making such distributions under the terms of our debt instruments (as discussed above), distributions will continue to accrue on such preferred op units and we will be prohibited from making any distributions on our common op units until all such accrued but unpaid distributions on our preferred op units have been paid (or funds for such payment have been set aside). defaulting on our mortgage debt could adversely affect our business. as of december 31, 2010, 11 of our hotels and assets related thereto are subject to mortgages in an aggregate amount of approximately $1.0 billion. although the debt is generally non-recourse to us, if these hotels do not produce adequate cash flow to service the debt secured by such mortgages, the mortgage lenders could call a default on these assets. generally, we would expect to negotiate with the lender prior to the occurrence of a default to pursue other options, such as a deed in lieu of foreclosure. however, we may opt to allow such default to occur rather than make the necessary mortgage payments with funds from other sources. our senior notes indenture and credit facility contain cross-default provisions, which, depending upon the amount of secured debt in default, could 20 table of contents cause a cross-default under both of these agreements. our credit facility, which contains a more restrictive cross-default provision than the senior notes indenture, provides that a credit facility default will occur in the event that we default on non-recourse secured indebtedness in excess of 1% (or approximately $158 million as of december 31, 2010) of our total assets (using undepreciated real estate book values). for this and other reasons, permitting a default could adversely affect our long-term business prospects. our mortgage debt contains provisions that may reduce our liquidity. certain of our mortgage debt requires that, to the extent cash flow from the hotels which secure such debt drops below stated levels, we escrow cash flow after the payment of debt service until operations improve above the stated levels. in some cases, the lender has the right under certain circumstances to apply the escrowed amount to the outstanding balance of the mortgage debt. if such provisions are triggered, there can be no assurance that the affected properties will achieve the minimum cash flow levels required to trigger a release of any escrowed funds. the amounts required to be escrowed may negatively affect our liquidity by limiting our access to cash flow after debt service from these mortgaged properties. an increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on our credit facility and on our floating rate debt and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. interest payments for borrowings on our credit facility and certain mortgages on our properties, as well as fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps that we have entered into are based on floating rates. as a result, an increase in interest rates will reduce our cash flow available for other corporate purposes, including investments in our portfolio. further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures and increase interest costs on any debt that is refinanced. we may from time to time enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts. while these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of assets. rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. our senior notes are rated by moody investors service, standard &amp; poor ratings services and fitch ratings. these independent rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes at any time. such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. our expenses may not decrease if our revenue decreases. many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt-service payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the hotels. our expenses also will be affected by inflationary increases, and certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. in the event of a significant decrease in demand, we may not be able to reduce the size of hotel work forces in order to decrease wages and benefits. our managers also may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. any of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures also could adversely affect the future growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties. our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. as part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire luxury and upper upscale hotel properties. we may acquire properties through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other reits or similar real estate entities. we anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from host inc. equity offerings, issuance of limited partnership interests of host l.p., advances under our credit facility, the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness and proceeds from the sales of assets. disruptions in credit markets may limit our ability to finance acquisitions and may limit the ability of purchasers to finance hotels and adversely affect our disposition strategy and our ability to use disposition proceeds to finance acquisitions. 21 table of contents we may, from time to time, be in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions. we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from such acquisitions. our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities. we do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. our cash flow from our hotels may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. while we monitor the hotel managers performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if the hotel managers are not performing adequately. in addition, from time to time, we have had, and continue to have, differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. we generally resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. however, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in, or provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, all of which may result in conflicts of interest. as a result, our hotel managers have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interest. we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our consolidated hotels (other than our new zealand properties), we are still subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. from time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. we also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events. additionally, hotels where our managers have collective bargaining agreements with employees (approximately 21% of our current portfolio by revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010) are more highly affected by labor force activities than others. the resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. furthermore, labor agreements may limit the ability of our managers to reduce the size of hotel workforces during an economic downturn because collective bargaining agreements are negotiated between the managers of our hotels and labor unions. we do not have the ability to control the outcome of these negotiations. our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and potentially significant capital expenditures in order to remain competitive in the marketplace, maintain brand standards or to comply with applicable laws or regulations. the timing and costs of such renovations or improvements may result in reduced operating performance during construction and may not improve the return on these investments. in addition to capital expenditures required by our loan agreements or agreements with our hotel managers, we will need to make capital expenditures in order to remain competitive with other hotels, to maintain the economic value of our hotels and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. the timing of these improvements can affect hotel performance, particularly if the improvements require closures of a significant number of rooms or other features of the hotels, such as ballrooms, meeting space and restaurants. these capital improvements reduce the availability of cash for other purposes and are subject to cost overruns and delays. in addition, because we depend 22 table of contents on external sources of capital, we may not have the necessary funds to invest and, if we fail to maintain our properties in accordance with brand standards set by our managers, the manager may terminate the management agreement. moreover, we may not necessarily realize a significant, or any, improvement in the performance of the hotels in which we make these investments. the ownership of hotels outside the united states and the expansion of our business into new markets outside of the united states will expose us to risks relating to owning hotels in those international markets. part of our business strategy is to expand our presence internationally. as of december 31, 2010, we directly own nine hotels located outside the united states. subsequent to year end, we acquired seven hotels in new zealand. we are also party to a joint venture that owns 11 hotels in europe and own a 25% interest in an asian joint venture that currently does not own any hotels. however, our asian joint venture has reached an agreement to develop seven properties in india in a joint venture with accor s.a. and interglobe enterprises limited. we may have difficulty managing our expansion into new geographic markets where we have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area, or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures and regulations. there are risks inherent in conducting business internationally, which include: employment laws and practices; tax laws, which may provide for income or other taxes or tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that foreign earnings that are repatriated, directly or indirectly, are subject to dividend withholding requirements or other restrictions; compliance with and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy; the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing and changes in the availability, cost and terms of such financing; adverse changes in local, political, economic and market conditions; insurance coverage related to terrorist events; changes in interest rates and/or currency exchange rates; regulations regarding the incurrence of debt; and difficulties in complying with u.s. rules governing reits while operating internationally. any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to obtain all of the intended benefits of our international expansion. if we do not effectively manage our geographic expansion and successfully integrate the foreign hotels into our organization, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. we may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. we have made a significant investment in a european joint venture which owns 11 hotels in europe and are exploring investment opportunities throughout asia through our asian joint venture. we may, from time to time, invest as a co-venturer in other entities holding hotel properties instead of purchasing hotel properties directly. co-venturers often share control over the operation of a joint venture. actions by a co-venturer could subject the assets to additional risk as a result of any of the following circumstances: our co-venturer might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint venture s, interests or goals; or our co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives. although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture in order to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. our management agreements could affect the sale or financing of our hotels. under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer our hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management 23 table of contents agreements and meets specified other conditions. our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager consent. if the manager does not consent to such sale or financing, we may be precluded from taking actions in our best interest. future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect us. previous terrorist attacks in the united states and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries in recent years. the impact that terrorist attacks in the united states or elsewhere could have on domestic and international markets and our business in particular is indeterminable, but it is possible that such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and/or our results of operations and financial condition as a whole. we may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. we obtain terrorism insurance as part of our all-risk property insurance program, as well as our general liability and directors and officers coverage. however, our all-risk policies have limitations, such as per occurrence limits, annual aggregate coverage limits and sublimits, all of which might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. also, all-risk insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act ( tripra ). property damage related to war and to nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. while tripra will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical perils, tripra does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. we have a wholly-owned captive insurance company through which we obtain a policy of nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) coverage. this captive insurer has the same ability as other insurance companies to apply to the u.s. treasury for reimbursement, as provided for in tripra, and is subject to the same deductibles and co-insurance obligations. this potential reimbursement applies to property insurance only, and not to general liability or directors and officers insurance, and there are no assurances that we will be able to recover any or all of our ncbr losses under this program. we may be unable to satisfy the insurance requirements of our lenders. certain of our mortgage debt agreements for our properties and properties held by our european joint venture require us to maintain property insurance provided by carriers maintaining minimum ratings from standard &amp; poor s, a.m. best or other rating agencies. several of our mortgages contain requirements for the financial strength of insurers to be rated as high as aa by standard &amp; poor s. due to upheavals in the financial markets, the number of insurers that carry that rating has been decreasing for a number of years. in 2009, and again in 2010, in all cases where our insurance carriers did not meet the minimum financial strength requirements, we were able to obtain waivers from the lenders or they have provided written assurances that they are satisfied with the makeup of our pool of insurance providers. we cannot provide assurances that each of our lenders will continue to be satisfied with our insurance coverage, or with the rating levels of our carriers, or that our carriers will not be downgraded further. if any of these lenders becomes dissatisfied with our insurance coverage or the ratings of our insurance carriers, they may, on our behalf, elect to procure additional property insurance coverage that meets their ratings requirements. the cost of such additional property insurance would be borne by the property or properties securing the loans. also, the premiums associated with such coverage may be considerably higher than those associated with our current insurance coverage. some potential losses are not covered by insurance. we, or our hotel managers, carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. these policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar types of properties. generally, our all-risk property policies provide coverage that is available on a per-occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, has an overall limit, as well as various sub-limits, on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. sub-limits exist for certain types of claims, such as service interruption, debris removal, expediting costs, landscaping replacement and 24 table of contents natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes, and may be subject to annual aggregate coverage limits. the dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. in this regard, hotels in certain of our markets, including california and florida, have in the past been and continue to be particularly susceptible to damage from natural disasters. recovery under the applicable policies also is subject to substantial deductibles and complex calculations of lost business income. there is no assurance that this insurance, where maintained, will fully fund the re-building or restoration of a hotel that is impacted by an earthquake, hurricane, or other natural disaster, or the income lost as a result of the damage. our property policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case where the manager of one of our hotels provides this coverage, any such claims will be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the manager program for the same purpose. therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, or, in the case of hotels where coverage is provided by the management company, affects hotels owned by others, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached. each affected hotel may only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. we may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive complete coverage for risks that affect multiple properties, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, or certain types of terrorism. in addition, there are other risks, such as certain environmental hazards, that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify coverage. we also may encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur, or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all or a part of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. in that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. litigation judgments or settlements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. on february 8, 2010, we received an adverse jury verdict in a trial in the 166th judicial district court of bexar county, texas involving the sale of land encumbered by a ground lease for the san antonio marriott rivercenter. on june 3, 2010, the trial court entered its final judgment, reciting and incorporating the jury verdict. on august 26, 2010, we filed our notice of appeal. see legal proceedings for more information on the verdict and see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations other income statement line items for a discussion of the litigation accrual. we also are involved in various other legal proceedings in the normal course of business and are vigorously defending these claims; however, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of any pending legal proceedings. we believe, based on currently available information, that the results of such proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but might be material to our operating results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the operating results for such period. we also could become the subject of future claims by the operators of our hotels, individuals or companies who use our hotels, our investors, our joint venture partners or regulating entities and these claims could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. we may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to hotels or businesses we acquire. assets and entities that we have acquired, or may in the future acquire, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. in general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements may not survive long enough for us to become aware of such liabilities and seek recourse against our sellers. while we usually require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification is often limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. as a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to 25 table of contents liabilities associated with acquired hotels and entities may exceed our expectations, plus we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. finally, indemnification agreements between us and the sellers typically provide that the sellers will retain certain specified liabilities relating to the assets and entities acquired by us. while the sellers are generally contractually obligated to pay all losses and other expenses relating to such retained liabilities without regard to survival limitations, materiality thresholds, deductibles or caps on losses, there can be no guarantee that such arrangements will not require us to incur losses or other expenses in addition to those incurred by the sellers. we depend on our key personnel. our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. none of our key personnel have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. we cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. while we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. as a result of the expansion of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the euro, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the british pound, polish zloty, the brazilian real and the chilean peso. in 2010, these currencies represented 4% of our revenues. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and other foreign currencies, these transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. to the extent that we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with expenses paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate revenues or earnings in other currencies, the conversion of such amounts into u.s. dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of our revenues or earnings. applicable reit laws may restrict certain business activities. as a reit, host inc. is subject to various restrictions on the types of income it can earn, assets it can own and activities in which it can engage. business activities that could be impacted by applicable reit laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units. due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will conduct certain business activities, including those mentioned above, in one or more of our taxable reit subsidiaries. our taxable reit subsidiaries are taxable as regular c corporations and are subject to federal, state, local, and, if applicable, foreign taxation on their taxable income. we may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are inherently illiquid. real estate properties generally cannot be sold quickly and, accordingly, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. the inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service our debt. in addition, under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits, we may be limited in our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive on the hotels situated on the leased properties. as of december 31, 2010, 36 of our hotels are subject to third-party ground leases (encumbering all or a portion of the hotel). these ground leases generally require periodic increases in ground rent payments, which payments are often based on economic indicators such as the consumer price index. our ability to pay ground rent could be adversely affected to the extent that our hotel revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. in addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would have to assume the ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price. 26 table of contents environmental problems are possible and can be costly. we believe that our properties comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws. unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and remediate hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. the owner or operator may be required to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, and for investigation and remediation costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. these laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. compliance with other government regulations can be costly. our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including title iii of the americans with disabilities act, building codes and regulations pertaining to fire and life safety. compliance with these laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. these laws and regulations may be changed from time-to-time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks of ownership of host inc. common stock there are limitations on the acquisition of host inc. common stock and changes in control. host inc. charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of host l.p., and the maryland general corporation law contain a number of provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for host inc. stockholders or host l.p. unitholders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: restrictions on transfer and ownership of host inc. stock. to maintain host inc. qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, among other purposes, not more than 50% in value of host inc. outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned in the last half of the taxable year, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, which, as defined in the internal revenue code (the code ), may include certain entities. because such ownership could jeopardize host inc. qualification as a reit, a person cannot own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of an interest in a host inc. lessee, nor can a host inc. lessee of any partnership in which host inc. is a partner own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of host inc. shares, in each case unless exempted by host inc. board of directors. host inc. charter prohibits ownership, directly or by attribution, by any person or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of shares of host inc. outstanding common stock, preferred stock or any other class or series of stock, each considered as a separate class or series for this purpose. together, these limitations are referred to as the ownership limit. 27 table of contents stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the intended acquiror of the stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares of stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the stock or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares of host inc. stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of host inc. stock in excess of the ownership limit. these restrictions on transfer and ownership will not apply if host inc. board of directors determines that it is no longer in host inc. best interests to continue to qualify as a reit or that compliance with the restrictions on transfer and ownership is no longer required for host inc. to qualify as a reit. removal of board of directors. host inc. charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. vacancies on host inc. board of directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of the remaining directors (except that a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority vote of the entire board of directors) and, in the case of a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director, by the stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. host inc. charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that host inc. has authority to issue is 1,100,000,000, consisting of 1,050,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. host inc. board of directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock, including common stock into preferred stock or vice versa, and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued. because host inc. board of directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of stock without a stockholder vote, host inc. board of directors may give the holders of any class or series of stock preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock. maryland business combination law. under the maryland general corporation law, specified business combinations, including specified issuances of equity securities, between a maryland corporation and any person who owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation then outstanding shares, or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time during the two year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the corporation (each, an interested stockholder ), or an affiliate of the interested stockholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. thereafter, any of these specified business combinations must be approved by 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of outstanding voting shares and by two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of voting shares other than voting shares held by the interested stockholder unless, among other conditions, the corporation common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the maryland general corporation law, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder. as a maryland corporation which has not opted out of these provisions, host inc. is subject to the maryland business combination statute. the statute provides various exemptions from its provisions, including for business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors before the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. the board of directors has not granted any such exceptions at this time. maryland control share acquisition law. under the maryland general corporation law, control shares acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights, except to the extent approved by the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. control shares are voting shares which, if aggregated with all other voting shares owned by the acquiror or over which the 28 table of contents acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (1) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (2) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (3) a majority or more of the voting power. control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. a control share acquisition means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specified exceptions. our bylaws contain a provision exempting us from the control share provisions of the maryland general corporation law. there can be no assurance that this bylaw provision exempting us from the control share provisions will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of host inc. assets. under maryland law and host inc. charter, subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer host inc. assets within the meaning of the maryland general corporation law if approved (1) by host inc. board of directors in the manner provided in the maryland general corporation law, and (2) by host inc. stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger of host inc. with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing host inc. form of organization from a corporation to a trust requires only the approval of host inc. stockholders holding a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the merger. under the maryland general corporation law, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange is only required to be approved by the board of directors of a maryland corporation if the corporation is the successor entity. host inc. voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. certain charter and bylaw amendments. host inc. charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transfer and ownership of host inc. stock, fixing the size of the board of directors within the range set forth in the charter, removal of directors, the filling of vacancies, exculpation and indemnification of directors, calling special stockholder meetings and others, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by host inc. stockholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. other charter amendments generally require approval of the board and the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. as permitted under the maryland general corporation law, host inc. charter and bylaws provide that the board of directors have the exclusive right to amend host inc. bylaws. these provisions may make it more difficult to amend host inc. charter and bylaws to alter the provisions described herein that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control or the acquisition of host inc. common stock, without the approval of the board of directors. shares of host inc. common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price of host inc. common stock. sales of a substantial number of shares of host inc. common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for host inc. common stock. in addition, holders of op units who redeem their units and receive, at host inc. election, shares of host inc. common stock will be able to sell those shares freely. as of december 31, 2010, there are approximately 10.5 million op units outstanding that are redeemable. further, a substantial number of shares of host inc. common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans. we maintain two stock-based compensation plans: (i) the comprehensive stock plan, whereby we may award to participating employees and directors restricted shares of common stock, options to purchase common stock and deferred shares of common stock, and (ii) an employee stock purchase plan. at december 31, 2010, there were approximately 19.2 million shares of host inc. common stock reserved and available for issuance under the comprehensive stock plan, and there were 3.7 million shares of host inc. restricted stock outstanding and 0.9 million outstanding options exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $7.14 per share. also as of december 31, 2010, host l.p. had outstanding $1,251 million principal amount of exchangeable senior debentures that could become exchangeable under certain conditions for shares of host inc. common stock. the principal portion for $526 million face amount of such exchangeable debentures is cash settled, and therefore no 29 table of contents shares would be issued, unless host inc. share price exceeded the exchange rate for this series of debentures of $31.23 as of december 31, 2010. for another $400 million of such exchangeable debentures, host inc. has the option to issue cash, shares of host inc. common stock or any combination thereof in settlement of the debentures, should they be presented for exchange. on august 19, 2010, host inc. entered into a sales agency financing agreement with bny mellon capital markets, llc, through which host inc. may issue and sell, from time to time, shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $400 million. the sales will be made in at the market offerings under sec rules, including sales made directly on the new york stock exchange. bny mellon capital markets, llc is acting as sales agent. as of december 31, 2010, $300 million in shares of host inc. common stock have been issued and sold pursuant to the program. shares of host inc. common stock, having an aggregate offering price of approximately $100 million, remain issuable from time to time under the agreement. any additional shares of common stock issued by host inc., whether issued under this program or otherwise, would be available in the future for sale in the public markets. our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of host inc. common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit equity securities is based primarily upon the market perception of the reit growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets. for that reason, shares of host inc. common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent that we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of host inc. common stock. our failure to meet the market expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of host inc. common stock. market interest rates may affect the price of shares of host inc. common stock. we believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a reit is the dividend rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher dividend rate. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of host inc. common stock to decrease. federal income tax risks to qualify as a reit, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits are required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain, regardless of available cash or outstanding obligations. to continue to qualify as a reit, host inc. is required to distribute to its stockholders with respect to each year at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain. to the extent that host inc. satisfies this distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income and net capital gain for the taxable year, it will be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on its undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. in addition, host inc. will be subject to a nondeductible 4% excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by host inc. with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of (1) 85% of its ordinary income, (2) 95% of its net capital gain, and (3) any undistributed taxable income from prior years, less excess distributions from prior years. host inc. intends to make distributions, subject to the availability of cash and in compliance with any debt covenants, to its stockholders in order to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid the imposition of a significant nondeductible 4% excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from host l.p. and its subsidiaries. there are differences in timing between host inc. recognition of taxable income and its receipt of cash available for distribution due to, among other things, the seasonality of the lodging industry and the fact that some taxable income will be phantom taxable income, which is taxable income that is not matched by cash flow. due to transactions entered into in years prior to host inc. conversion to a reit, host inc. could recognize substantial amounts of phantom taxable income in the future. it is possible that any differences between the recognition of taxable income and the receipt of the related cash could require us to borrow funds or for host inc. to issue additional equity in order to enable host inc. to meet its distribution requirements and, therefore, 30 table of contents to maintain its reit status and to avoid the nondeductible 4% excise tax. in addition, because the reit distribution requirements prevent host inc. from retaining earnings, we generally will be required to refinance debt at its maturity with additional debt or equity. it is possible that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would not be sufficient to meet host inc. distribution and tax obligations. host l.p. owns 100% of the outstanding common stock and a portion of the outstanding preferred stock of two entities that have elected to be treated as reits. each of these subsidiary reits will be subject to the same requirements that host inc. must satisfy in order to qualify as a reit, including the distribution requirements described above. adverse tax consequences would occur if host inc. or any of its subsidiary reits fail to qualify as a reit. we believe that host inc. has been organized and has operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a reit under the code, commencing with its taxable year beginning january 1, 1999, and host inc. currently intends to continue to operate as a reit during future years. in addition, host inc. owns, through host l.p., two entities that have elected to be treated as reits. as the requirements for qualification and taxation as a reit are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a reit are limited, no assurance can be provided that host inc. currently qualifies as a reit or will continue to qualify as a reit or that each of host inc. subsidiary reits qualify as a reit. if any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that host inc. would fail to qualify as a reit unless it (or the subsidiary reit) could avail itself of certain relief provisions. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to an entity qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of its reit qualification. if host inc. or any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, and any available relief provisions did not apply, the non-qualifying reit would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. moreover, unless entitled to statutory relief, the non-qualifying reit would not qualify as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which reit qualification was lost. any determination that host inc. or one of its subsidiary reits does not qualify as a reit will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could materially reduce the value of host inc. common stock. the additional tax liability of host inc. or the subsidiary reit for the year, or years, in which the relevant entity did not qualify as a reit would reduce its net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to stockholders. furthermore, the non-qualifying entity would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders as a condition to reit qualification and all of its distributions to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary c corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. this means that, if host inc. were to fail to qualify as a reit, host inc. stockholders currently taxed as individuals would be taxed on those dividends at capital gain rates and host inc. corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case to applicable limitations under the code. host inc. failure to qualify as a reit also would cause an event of default under host l.p. credit facility, which default could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due thereunder, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under host l.p. outstanding debt securities. if our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. to qualify as a reit, host inc. must satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of its gross income must be passive income, such as rent. for the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our trs, which rental income currently constitutes substantially all of host inc. and each of our subsidiary reits gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, our leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. we believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will agree with this characterization. if the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, neither host inc. nor either of our subsidiary reits would be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to reits and each would likely lose its reit status. 31 table of contents if our affiliated lessees fail to qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. rent paid by a lessee that is a related party tenant of host inc. will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to reits. we lease substantially all of our hotels to our subsidiary that is taxable as a regular c corporation and that has elected to be treated as a taxable reit subsidiary with respect to host inc. so long as any affiliated lessee qualifies as a taxable reit subsidiary, it will not be treated as a related party tenant. we believe that our affiliated lessees have qualified and will continue to qualify, and that the taxable reit subsidiaries of each of our subsidiary reits have qualified and will continue to qualify, to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will not challenge the status of a taxable reit subsidiary for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in disqualifying any of our affiliated lessees (including the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits) from treatment as a taxable reit subsidiary, it is possible that host inc. or a subsidiary reit would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to reits and substantially all of its income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. if host inc. or a subsidiary reit failed to meet either the asset tests or the gross income tests, each would likely lose its reit status. despite the reit status of each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits, we remain subject to various taxes. one of host inc. subsidiary reits will be required to pay federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate on built-in gain recognized as a result of the sale of one or more of its hotel assets prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period, including certain hotels acquired from starwood and its affiliates in 2006. the total amount of gain on which the subsidiary reit would be subject to corporate income tax if all of its built-in gain assets were sold in a taxable transaction prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period would be material to it. in addition, we expect that we could recognize other substantial deferred tax liabilities in the future without any corresponding receipt of cash. notwithstanding host inc. status as a reit, host inc. and our subsidiaries (including our subsidiary reits) will be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on their income and property. for example, host inc. and our subsidiary reits will pay tax on certain types of income that are not distributed and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable reit subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm length basis. moreover, the taxable reit subsidiaries of host inc. and our subsidiary reits are taxable as regular c corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent that they own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. host l.p. is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by host inc. if the irs were to challenge successfully host l.p. status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, host inc. would cease to qualify as a reit and would suffer other adverse consequences. we believe that host l.p. qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. as a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. instead, each of its partners, including host inc., is required to pay tax on such partner allocable share of its income. no assurance can be provided, however, that the irs will not challenge host l.p. status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating host l.p. as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, host inc. would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to reits and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a reit. if host l.p. fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or host inc. fails to qualify as a reit, either failure would cause an event of default under host l.p. credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under host l.p. outstanding debt securities. also, the failure of host l.p. to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes would cause it to become subject to federal, state and foreign corporate income tax, which tax would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including host inc. 32 table of contents as a reit, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits is subject to limitations on its ownership of debt and equity securities. subject to certain exceptions, a reit is generally prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer to the extent that (1) the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets, (2) the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities, or (3) the reit owns more than 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. a reit is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. however, a reit may not own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 25% of the value of the reit total assets. if host inc. or any of its subsidiary reits were to violate these ownership limitations, each would likely lose its reit status. each of host inc. or its subsidiary reits may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. the federal income tax provisions applicable to reits provide that any gain realized by a reit on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% excise tax. under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. we intend to hold our hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels consistent with our investment objectives. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% excise tax. risks relating to redemption of op units a holder who redeems op units may have adverse tax consequences. a holder who redeems op units will be treated for federal and state income tax purposes as having sold the op units. the sale of these units is a taxable event and the holder thereof will be treated as realizing an amount equal to the sum of the value of the common stock or cash the holder receives, plus the amount of host l.p. nonrecourse liabilities allocable to the redeemed op units. the gain or loss recognized by the holder of op units is measured by the difference between the amount realized by the holder and the holder basis in the op units redeemed (which will include the amount of host l.p. nonrecourse liabilities allocable to the redeemed op units). it is possible that the amount of gain the holder recognizes could exceed the value of the common stock or cash that the holder receives. it also is possible that the tax liability resulting from this gain could exceed the value of the common stock or cash the holder receives. if a holder of op units elects to redeem their units, the original receipt of the op units may be subject to tax. if a holder of op units elects to redeem their units, particularly within two years of receiving them, there is a risk that the original receipt of the op units may be treated as a taxable sale under the disguised sale rules of the internal revenue code. subject to several exceptions, the tax law generally provides that a partner contribution of property to a partnership and a simultaneous or subsequent transfer of money or other consideration from the partnership to the partner will be presumed to be a taxable sale. in particular, if money or other consideration is transferred by a partnership to a partner within two years of the partner contribution of property, the transactions are presumed to be a taxable sale of the contributed property, unless the facts and circumstances clearly establish that the transfers are not a sale. on the other hand, if two years have passed between the original contribution of property and the transfer of money or other consideration, the transactions will not be presumed to be a taxable sale, unless the facts and circumstances clearly establish that they should be. 33 table of contents differences between an investment in shares of host inc. common stock and op units may affect redeemed holders of op units. if a holder of op units elects to have op units redeemed, we will determine whether the holder receives cash or shares of host inc. common stock in exchange for the op units. although an investment in shares of host inc. common stock is substantially similar to an investment in op units, there are some differences between ownership of op units and ownership of host inc. common stock. these differences include form of organization, management structure, voting rights, liquidity and federal income taxation, some of which may be material to investors. 34 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 88 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. asian joint venture. on march 25, 2008, we entered into a joint venture, structured as a singapore corporation, to explore investment opportunities in various markets throughout asia, including china, japan, india, vietnam and australia. we own a 25% interest in the asian joint venture. the initial term of the asian joint venture is for a period of seven years. due to the ownership structure of the asian joint venture, and our partner rights to cause its dissolution and liquidation at any time, it is not consolidated in our financial statements. on july 20, 2010, the asian joint venture reached a joint venture agreement with accor s. a. and interglobe enterprises limited to develop seven properties totaling approximately 1,750 rooms in three major cities in india: bangalore, chennai and delhi. the asian joint venture will invest approximately $50 million to acquire approximately 36% of the interest in the india joint venture. the properties will be managed by accor under the pullman, novotel and ibis brands. development of the properties is underway, and the first hotel, the ibis bangalore, is expected to open in the second quarter of 2011. hospitality properties trust relationship . during 2010, we owned leasehold interests in 53 courtyard by marriott properties and 18 residence inn by marriott properties, which hotels were sold to hpt and leased back to us in 1995 and 1996. in conjunction with our conversion to a reit we entered into subleases for these 71 properties with a third party. in late june 2010, hpt sent notices of default because the subtenants failed to meet certain net worth covenants, which would have triggered an event of default by us under the master leases between us and hpt. as a result, we terminated the subleases effective july 6, 2010 and resumed acting as owner under the management agreements. the subtenants remain obligated to us for outstanding rent payments to the extent that operating cash generated by the hotels is less than rent that would have been paid under the terminated subleases, although they have not funded this obligation since the termination of the subleases. 73 table of contents effective upon termination of the subleases, we recorded the operations of the hotels rather than rental income for the remaining portion of 2010. as a result, we recorded $123 million of hotel revenues for the 71 properties, as well as $44 million of rental income earned prior to the termination of the subleases in 2010, which are included in other revenues on the consolidated statements of operations. additionally, we recorded $96 million of hotel expenses related to the 71 properties, as well as $84 million of rental expense due to hpt in 2010, which are included in other property-level expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. the property revenues and rental income recorded, less the hotel expenses and rental expenses, resulted in a loss of approximately $13 million and $1 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, and a gain of $4 million in 2008. we terminated the master lease on the 18 residence inn properties in accordance with its terms effective december 31, 2010, at which time hpt paid us $17.2 million of deferred proceeds related to the initial sale of these properties and additional amounts held in a tenant collection account. on november 23, 2010, we gave notice that we will not extend the term of the master lease on the 53 courtyard by marriott properties, which will result in the termination and expiration of that lease on december 31, 2012. at the expiration of that master lease, hpt is obligated to pay us deferred proceeds related to the initial sale of the 53 courtyard properties of approximately $51 million, subject to damages arising out of an event of default, if any, under the master lease, plus additional amounts held in a tenant collection account. tax sharing arrangements . under tax sharing agreements with former affiliated companies (such as marriott international, inc., hms host and barcel&oacute; crestline corporation), we are obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) relating to periods in which the companies were affiliated with us. for example, a taxing authority could adjust an item deducted by a former affiliate during the period that this former affiliate was owned by us. this adjustment could produce a tax liability that we may be obligated to pay under the tax sharing agreement. additionally, under the partnership agreement between host inc. and host l.p., host l.p. is obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) incurred by host inc., as well as any liabilities the irs may successfully assert against host inc. we do not expect any amounts paid under the tax sharing arrangements to be material. tax indemnification agreements. for reasons relating to federal and state income tax considerations of the former and current owners of three hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods depending on the hotel. two of these agreements expired in 2010 and were not renewed and the third will expire in 2028. guarantees . we have certain guarantees, which consist of commitments we have made to third parties for leases or debt, that are not on our books due to various dispositions, spin-offs and contractual arrangements, but that we have agreed to pay in the event of certain circumstances including default by an unrelated party. we consider the likelihood of any material payments under these guarantees to be remote. the largest guarantees (by dollar amount) are listed below: we remain contingently liable for rental payments on certain divested non-lodging properties. these primarily represent certain divested restaurants that were sold subject to our guarantee of the future rental payments. the aggregate amount of these future rental payments is approximately $18 million as of december 31, 2010. in 1997, we owned leisure park venture limited partnership, which owns and operates a senior living facility. we no longer have an ownership interest in the partnership, but we remain obligated under a guarantee of interest and principal with regard to $14.7 million of municipal bonds issued by the new jersey economic development authority through their maturity in 2027. however, to the extent we are required to make any payments under the guarantee, we have been indemnified by barcel&oacute; crestline corporation, who, in turn, is indemnified by the current owner of the facility. in connection with the sale of two hotels in january 2005, we remain contingently liable for the amounts due under the respective ground leases. the future minimum lease payments are approximately $13 million through the full term of the leases, including renewal options. we believe that any liability related to these ground leases is remote, and in each case, we have been indemnified by the purchaser of the hotel. 74 table of contents information on other guarantees and other off-balance sheet arrangements may be found in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. contractual obligations. the table below summarizes our obligations for principal and estimated interest payments on our debt, future minimum lease payments on our operating and capital leases, projected capital expenditures and other long-term liabilities, each as of december 31, 2010 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years long-term debt obligations(1) $ 6,947 $ 532 $ 1,799 $ 2,747 $ 1,869 capital lease obligations 159 3 5 4 147 operating lease obligations 1,332 109 138 63 1,022 purchase obligations(2) 397 327 70 other long-term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet(3) 15 5 10 total $ 8,850 $ 971 $ 2,017 $ 2,814 $ 3,048 (1) the amounts shown include amortization of principal, debt maturities and estimated interest payments. interest payments have been included in the long-term debt obligations based on the weighted average interest rate. (2) our only purchase obligations consist of commitments for capital expenditures at our hotels. under our contracts, we have the ability to defer some of these expenditures into later years. (3) the amounts shown include deferred management fees and the estimated amount of tax expense. under terms of our management agreements, we have deferred payment of management fees to our hotel managers for some of our properties that have not achieved the required income thresholds for payment of owner priority to us. the timing of the payments, if any, is based on future operations, the termination of the management agreement or the sale of the hotel, and, is therefore, not determinable. the estimated amount of tax expense relates to uncertain tax liabilities from prior years. critical accounting policies our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with gaap, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. while we do not believe the reported amounts would be materially different, application of these policies involves the exercise of judgment and the use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to the impairment of long-lived assets, on an ongoing basis. we base our estimates on experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. all of our significant accounting policies are disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. the following represent certain critical accounting policies that require us to exercise our business judgment or make significant estimates. purchase price allocations to hotels acquired in a business combination . investments in hotel properties are stated at acquisition cost and allocated to land, property and equipment, identifiable intangible assets, other assets and assumed debt and other liabilities at fair value. any remaining unallocated investment would be treated as goodwill. property and equipment are recorded at fair value and allocated to buildings, improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment using appraisals and valuations performed by management and independent third parties. fair values are based on the exit price (i.e. the price that would be received to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date). we evaluate several factors, including market data for similar assets, expected cash flows discounted at risk adjusted rates and replacement cost for the assets, to determine an appropriate exit cost when evaluating the fair value of our assets. other items that we evaluate in a business combination include identifiable intangible assets, capital lease assets and obligations and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets are typically assumed contracts, including ground and retail leases and management and franchise agreements, which are recorded at fair value, although no value is generally allocated to contracts which are at market terms. above-market and below-market contract values are 75 table of contents based on the present value of the difference between contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the contracts acquired and our estimate of the fair value of contract rates for corresponding contracts measured over the period equal to the remaining non-cancelable term of the contract. intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining non-cancelable term of the related agreements. capital lease obligations that are assumed as a part of the acquisition of a leasehold interest are fair valued and included as debt on the accompanying balance sheet and we will record the corresponding right-to-use assets. classification of a lease does not change if it is part of a business combination. in making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, we may utilize a number of sources that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of a property and other market data, including third-party appraisals and valuations. in certain situations, a deferred tax liability is created due to the difference between the fair value and the tax basis of the asset at the acquisition date, which also may result in a goodwill asset being recorded. the goodwill that is recorded as a result of this difference is not subject to amortization. furthermore, acquisition-related costs, such as due diligence, legal and accounting fees, are not capitalized or applied in determining the fair value of the acquired assets. impairment testing. we analyze our assets for impairment throughout the year when events or circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying values thereof may not be recoverable. we consider a property to be impaired when the sum of future undiscounted cash flows over our remaining estimated holding period is less than the carrying value of the asset. for impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property carrying value over its fair value. to the extent that a property has a substantial remaining estimated useful life and management does not believe that it is more likely than not the property will be disposed of prior to the end of its useful life, it would be unusual for undiscounted cash flows to be insufficient to recover the property carrying value. in the absence of other factors, we assume that the estimated life is equal to the gaap depreciable life, because of the continuous property maintenance and improvement capital expenditures required under our management agreements. we adjust our assumptions with respect to the remaining useful life of the property if situations dictate otherwise, such as an expiring ground lease, or it is more likely than not that the asset will be sold prior to its previously expected useful life. we also consider the effect of regular renewal and replacement capital expenditures on the estimable life of our properties, including critical infrastructure, which is regularly maintained and then replaced at the end of its useful life. we test for impairment in several situations, including when a property has a current or projected loss from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when other events, trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred and an asset carrying value may not be recoverable. in the evaluation of the impairment of our assets, we make many assumptions and estimates, including: projected cash flows, both from operations and the eventual disposition; expected useful life and holding period; future required capital expenditures; and fair values, including consideration of capitalization rates, discount rates and comparable selling prices. while we consider all of the above indicators as a preliminary indicator to determine if the carrying value may not be recovered by undiscounted cash flows, we reviewed the actual year-to-date and the projected cash flows from operations to identify properties with actual or projected annual operating losses or minimal operating profit as of december 31, 2010. the projected cash flows are prepared by our third-party managers and consider items such as booking pace, occupancy, room rate and property-level operating costs. we review the projections and may adjust them as we deem appropriate. as a result of our review, we identified seven properties that required further consideration of property and market specific conditions or factors to determine if the property was impaired using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. management considered a range of revpar and operating margins compared to prior years operating results in evaluating the projected cash flows from operations. the operating results of our portfolio were significantly affected by the recessionary climate in 2009 and the first half of 2010. to appropriately evaluate if the assets carrying value was recoverable, we projected a growth rate such that the individual properties would return to normalized levels of operations within five years and thereafter grow at a stabilized rate of 3% over the remaining estimable lives of the properties. this stabilized growth rate is lower than the historical growth rate for the entire industry over the period from 1997 through 2007. based on this test, no properties exhibited an impaired value at december 31, 2010. for purposes of this test, if we had assumed a growth rate of 0% after the return to normalized level of operations one of the seven properties identified above would have required further analysis. management believes its assumptions and estimates reflect current market conditions. 76 table of contents other-than-temporary impairment of an investment. we review our equity method investments for other-than-temporary impairment based on the occurrence of any triggering events that would indicate that the carrying amount of the investment exceeds its fair value on an other-than-temporary basis. triggering events can include a decline in distributable cash flows from the investment, a change in the expected hold period or other significant events which would decrease the value of the investment. our investments primarily consist of joint ventures which own hotel properties; therefore, we will generally have few observable inputs and will determine the fair value based on a discounted cash flow analysis of the investment, as well as considering the impact of other elements (i.e. control premiums, etc.). we use certain inputs, such as available third-party appraisals and forecast net operating income for the hotel properties, to estimate the expected cash flows. if an equity method investment is impaired, a loss is recorded for the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the investment. classification of assets as held for sale . our policy for the classification of a hotel as held for sale is intended to ensure that the sale of the asset is probable prior to classifying it as such, will be completed within one year and that actions required to complete the sale are unlikely to change or that it is unlikely the planned sale will be withdrawn. this policy is consistent with our experience with real estate transactions under which the timing and final terms of a sale are frequently not known until purchase agreements are executed, the buyer has a significant deposit at risk and no financing contingencies exist which could prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner. specifically, we will typically classify properties that we are actively marketing as held for sale when all of the following conditions are met: host inc. board of directors has approved the sale (to the extent the dollar amount of the sale requires board approval); a binding agreement to purchase the property has been signed; the buyer has committed a significant amount of non-refundable cash; and no significant contingencies exist which could prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner. to the extent that a property is classified as held for sale and its fair value less selling costs is lower than the net book value of the property, we will record an impairment loss. depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation expense is based on the estimated useful life of our assets and amortization expense for leasehold improvements is based on the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful life of the related assets. the lives of the assets are based on a number of assumptions, including cost and timing of capital expenditures to maintain and refurbish the assets, as well as specific market and economic conditions. while management believes its estimates are reasonable, a change in the estimated lives could affect depreciation expense and net income (loss) or the gain or loss on the sale of any of our hotels. valuation of deferred tax assets. we have approximately $117 million, net of a valuation allowance of $44 million, of deferred tax assets as of december 31, 2010. the objective of financial accounting and reporting standards for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in a company financial statements or tax returns. we have considered various factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future projected taxable income and tax planning strategies in determining a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets, and we believe that it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize the $117 million of net deferred tax assets in the future. when a determination is made that all, or a portion, of the deferred tax assets may not be realized, an increase in income tax expense would be recorded in that period. valuation of derivative contracts. we will occasionally enter into derivative products, including interest rate and foreign currency swaps, caps and collars. derivative instruments are subject to fair value reporting at each reporting date and the increase or decrease in fair value is recorded in net income (loss) or accumulated other comprehensive income, based on the applicable hedge accounting guidance. we estimate the fair value of these instruments through the use of third party valuations, which utilize the market standard methodology of netting the 77 table of contents discounted future cash receipts and the discounted future expected cash payments. we incorporate credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both our own nonperformance risk and the respective counterparty nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. in adjusting the fair value of our derivative contracts for the effect of nonperformance risk, we have considered the impact of netting any applicable credit enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts and guarantees. the variable cash flow streams are based on an expectation of future interest and exchange rates derived from observed market interest and exchange rate curves. the values of these instruments will change over time as cash receipts and payments are made and as market conditions change. any event that impacts the level of actual and expected future interest or exchange rates will impact our valuations. the fair value of our derivatives is likely to fluctuate from year-to-year based on changing levels of interest and exchange rates and shortening terms to maturity. stock compensation. we recognize costs resulting from host inc. share-based payment transactions over their vesting periods. we classify share-based payment awards granted in exchange for employee services as either equity awards or liability awards. the classification of host inc. restricted stock awards as either an equity award or a liability award is based upon cash settlement options. equity classified awards are measured based on the fair value on the date of grant. liability classified awards are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. these awards were classified as liability awards due to settlement features that allow the recipient to have a percentage of the restricted stock awards withheld to meet tax withholding requirements. the value of these restricted stock awards, less estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award the requisite service period (usually the vesting period). no compensation cost is recognized for awards for which employees do not render the requisite service. during 2009, host inc. implemented an employee stock plan for our senior management that included the following awards: restricted stock awards with vesting based on market conditions. these awards vest based on the total shareholder return relative to other reits and lodging companies. they are classified as liability awards due to their cash settlement features and are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. we utilize a simulation, or monte carlo model, to determine the fair value of host inc. restricted stock awards with vesting based on market conditions. the utilization of this model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of host inc. common stock, risk-free interest rates, the risk profile of our common shares compared to our peer group and the amount of host inc. awards expected to be forfeited. restricted stock awards with vesting based on performance conditions. these awards are earned based on the employee achieving a specified performance target, which will be based on the employee specific management business objectives. compensation cost will be recognized when the achievement of the performance condition is considered probable of achievement. if a performance condition has more than one outcome that is probable of achievement, recognition of compensation cost will be based on the condition that is the most likely outcome. these awards classified as liability awards due to their cash settlement provisions. therefore, the value of the shares to be issued by host inc. will be based on host inc. share price on the reporting date. stock option awards. the stock option awards are equity classified awards, as they do not include cash settlement features. therefore, the value of the award is determined on the grant date using a binomial pricing model and is not adjusted for future changes in the fair value. vesting for these awards is based on service conditions. the utilization of the binomial model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates and the amount of our awards expected to be forfeited. other awards. during 2009, host inc. granted restricted stock awards to all of its employees, with vesting based on service conditions. these awards are equity classified awards as they do not have cash settlement features similar to that for awards to senior management. consolidation policies. judgment is required with respect to the consolidation of partnership and joint venture entities in terms of the evaluation of control, including assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests that are not controllable through voting interests. we consolidate subsidiaries when we have the ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the entity. for those partnerships and joint ventures of which we are the general partner, 78 table of contents we review the rights of the limited partners to determine if those rights would preclude the assumption of control as the general partner. limited partner rights which would preclude presumption of control by the general partner include the substantive ability to dissolve (liquidate) the limited partnership or otherwise remove us, as the general partner, without cause and substantive participating rights, primarily through voting rights. we also evaluate our subsidiaries to determine if they should be considered variable interest entities ( vies ). if a subsidiary is a vie, it is subject to the consolidation framework specifically for vies. we consider an entity a vie if equity investors own an interest therein that does not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or if such investors do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support. in accordance with asc 810, we reviewed our subsidiaries to determine if (i) any of our subsidiaries or affiliates should be considered vies, and (ii) whether we should change our consolidation determination based on changes in the characteristics of these entities. foreign currency translation. the operations of foreign subsidiaries are maintained in their functional currency, which is generally the local currency, and then translated to u.s. dollars using the average exchange rates for the period. the assets and liabilities are translated to u.s. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. the resulting translation adjustments are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. foreign currency transactions are recorded in the functional currency for each entity using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at period end exchange rates. the resulting exchange differences on translation are recorded in gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions and derivatives, except when deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income as qualifying net investment hedges. comparable hotel operating statistics we present certain operating statistics (i.e., revpar, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses and adjusted operating profit) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. we define our comparable hotels as properties (i) that are owned or leased by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations for the entirety of the reporting periods being compared, and (ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or business interruption, or undergone large-scale capital projects during the reporting periods being compared. of the 113 hotels that we owned on december 31, 2010, 108 have been classified as comparable hotels. the operating results of the following hotels that we owned or leased as of december 31, 2010 are excluded from comparable hotel results for these periods: le m&eacute;ridien piccadilly (acquired leasehold interest in july 2010); westin chicago river north (acquired in august 2010); w new york, union square (acquired in september 2010); jw marriott, rio de janeiro (acquired in september 2010); san diego marriott hotel &amp; marina (business disruption due to significant renovations); and 53 courtyard by marriott properties leased from hpt (sublease was terminated in july 2010). the operating results of the eight hotels we disposed of in 2010 and 2009, as well as 18 residence inn properties we leased from hpt until december 31, 2010 are not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein. moreover, because these statistics and operating results are for our hotel properties, they exclude results for our non-hotel properties and other real estate investments. we evaluate the operating performance of our comparable hotels based on both geographic region and property type. these divisions are generally consistent with groupings recognized in the lodging industry. 79 table of contents geographic regions consist of the following (only states in which we own hotels are listed): pacific california, hawaii, oregon and washington; mountain arizona and colorado; north central illinois, indiana, minnesota, missouri and ohio; south central louisiana, tennessee and texas; new england connecticut, massachusetts and new hampshire; mid-atlantic pennsylvania, new jersey and new york; dc metro maryland, virginia and washington, d.c.; atlanta georgia and north carolina; florida florida; and international brazil, canada, chile, mexico, new zealand and the united kingdom. property types consist of the following: urban hotels located in primary business districts of major cities; suburban hotels located in office parks or smaller secondary markets; resort/conference hotels located in resort/conference destinations such as arizona, florida, hawaii and southern california; and airport hotels located at or near airports. reporting periods. for consolidated statement of operations. the results we report are based on results of our hotels reported to us by our hotel managers. our hotel managers use different reporting periods. marriott, the manager of a significant percentage of our properties, uses a year ending on the friday closest to december 31 and reports twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year for its u.s. and canadian marriott-managed hotels. in contrast, other managers of our hotels, such as hyatt and starwood, report results on a monthly basis. host inc., as a reit, is required by federal income tax law to report results on a calendar year basis. as a result, we elected to adopt the reporting periods used by marriott, modified so that our fiscal year always ends on december 31 to comply with reit rules. our first three quarters of operations end on the same day as marriott, but our fourth quarter ends on december 31 and our full year results, as reported in our statement of operations, always includes the same number of days as the calendar year. two consequences of the reporting cycle we have adopted are: (1) quarterly start dates will usually differ between years, except for the first quarter which always commences on january 1, and (2) our first and fourth quarters of operations and year-to-date operations may not include the same number of days as reflected in prior years. for example, set forth below are the quarterly start and end dates for 2011, 2010 and 2009. note that the second and third quarters of each year both reflect twelve weeks of operations. in contrast, the first and fourth quarters reflect differing days of operations. 2011 2010 2009 start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days first quarter january 1 march 25 84 january 1 march 26 85 january 1 march 27 86 second quarter march 26 june 17 84 march 27 june 18 84 march 28 june 19 84 third quarter june 18 september 9 84 june 19 september 10 84 june 20 september 11 84 fourth quarter september 10 december 31 113 september 11 december 31 112 september 12 december 31 111 while the reporting calendar we adopted is more closely aligned with the reporting calendar used by marriott, another consequence of our calendar is that we are unable to report the month of operations that ends after our fiscal quarter-end until the following quarter because our hotel managers that use a monthly reporting period do not make mid-month results available to us. hence, the month of operation that ends after our fiscal quarter-end is included in our quarterly results of operations in the following quarter for those hotel managers (covering approximately 43% of total revenues of our hotels). as a result, our quarterly results of operations include results from hotel managers 80 table of contents reporting results on a monthly basis as follows: first quarter (january, february), second quarter (march to may), third quarter (june to august) and fourth quarter (september to december). while this does not affect full year results, it does affect the reporting of quarterly results. for hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results. in contrast to the reporting periods for our consolidated statement of operations, our hotel operating statistics (i.e., revpar, average daily rate and average occupancy) and our comparable hotel results are reported based on the reporting cycle used by marriott for our marriott-managed hotels. this facilitates year-to-year comparisons, as each reporting period will be comprised of the same number of days of operations as in the prior year. this means, however, that the reporting periods we use for hotel operating statistics and our comparable hotel results will typically differ slightly from the reporting periods used for our statements of operations for the first and fourth quarters and the full year. set forth below are the quarterly start and end dates that are used for our hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results reported herein. results from hotel managers reporting on a monthly basis are included in our operating statistics and comparable hotel results consistent with their reporting in our consolidated statement of operations. hotel result reporting periods for operating statistics and comparable hotel results for marriott managed properties 2011 2010 2009 start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days first quarter january 1 march 25 84 january 2 march 26 84 january 3 march 27 84 second quarter march 26 june 17 84 march 27 june 18 84 march 28 june 19 84 third quarter june 18 september 9 84 june 19 september 10 84 june 20 september 11 84 fourth quarter september 10 december 30 112 september 11 december 31 112 september 12 january 1 112 non-gaap financial measures we use certain non-gaap financial measures, which are measures of our historical financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with gaap, within the meaning of applicable sec rules. these measures are as follows: (i) ebitda and adjusted ebitda, as a measure of performance for host inc. and host l.p., (ii) funds from operations (ffo) and ffo per diluted share, as a measure of performance for host inc., and (iii) comparable hotel operating results, as a measure of performance for host inc. and host l.p. the following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful measures of our performance. ebitda and adjusted ebitda. ebitda earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (ebitda) is a commonly used measure of performance in many industries. management believes ebitda provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because it helps us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our properties and facilitates comparisons between us and other lodging reits, hotel owners who are not reits and other capital-intensive companies. management uses ebitda to evaluate property-level results and as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and, like ffo per diluted share, it is widely used by management in the annual budget process. adjusted ebitda historically, management has adjusted ebitda when evaluating host inc. and host l.p. performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional recurring and non-recurring items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance and that the presentation of adjusted ebitda, when combined with the primary gaap presentation of net income, is beneficial to an investor complete understanding of our operating performance and is a relevant measure in calculating certain credit ratios. we adjust ebitda for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as adjusted ebitda: real estate transactions we exclude the effect of gains and losses, including the amortization of deferred gains, recorded on the disposition of assets and property insurance gains in our consolidated statement of operations because we believe that including them in adjusted ebitda is not consistent with reflecting the ongoing performance of our remaining assets. in addition, material gains or losses from the depreciated value of the disposed assets could be less important to investors given that the depreciated asset often does not reflect the market value of real estate assets (as noted below for ffo). 81 table of contents equity investment adjustments we exclude the equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated investments in partnerships and joint ventures as presented in our consolidated statement of operations because it includes our pro rata portion of depreciation, amortization and interest expense. we include our pro rata share of the adjusted ebitda of our equity investments as we believe this more accurately reflects the performance of our investment. the pro rata adjusted ebitda of equity investments is defined as the ebitda of our equity investments adjusted for any gains or losses on property transactions multiplied by our percentage ownership in the partnership or joint venture. consolidated partnership adjustments we deduct the non-controlling partners pro rata share of the adjusted ebitda of our consolidated partnerships as this reflects the non-controlling owners interest in the ebitda of our consolidated partnerships. the pro rata adjusted ebitda of non-controlling partners is defined as the ebitda of our consolidated partnerships adjusted for any gains or losses on property transactions multiplied by the non-controlling partners positions in the partnership or joint venture. cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle infrequently, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) promulgates new accounting standards that require the consolidated statement of operations to reflect the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. we exclude these one-time adjustments because they do not reflect our actual performance for that period. impairment losses we exclude the effect of impairment losses recorded because we believe that including them in adjusted ebitda is not consistent with reflecting the ongoing performance of our remaining assets. in addition, we believe that impairment charges are similar to gains (losses) on dispositions and depreciation expense, both of which are also excluded from ebitda. acquisition costs effective january 1, 2009, the accounting treatment under gaap for costs associated with completed property acquisitions changed and these costs are now expensed in the year incurred as opposed to capitalized as part of the acquisition. beginning in 2011, we will exclude the effect of these costs because we believe that including them is not reflective of the ongoing performance of our properties. this is consistent with the ebitda calculation under the prior gaap accounting treatment which expensed these costs over time as part of depreciation expense, which is excluded from ebitda. ebitda and adjusted ebitda, as presented, may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies. this information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with gaap. cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures), interest expense and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the ebitda and adjusted ebitda presentations. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include interest expense, capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-gaap financial measures. additionally, ebitda and adjusted ebitda should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. 82 table of contents the following table provides a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted ebitda (in millions): reconciliation of net loss to ebitda, adjusted ebitda year ended december 31, 2010 2009 net loss $ (132 ) $ (258 ) interest expense 384 379 depreciation and amortization 592 595 income taxes (31 ) (39 ) discontinued operations (a) (1 ) 10 ebitda 812 687 (gains) losses on dispositions 2 (35 ) non-cash impairment charges 131 amortization of deferred gains (4 ) equity investment adjustments: equity in (earnings) losses of affiliates 1 (3 ) pro rata ebitda of equity investments 23 33 consolidated partnership adjustments: pro rata ebitda attributable to non-controlling partners in other consolidated partnerships (14 ) (11 ) adjusted ebitda for host inc. and host l.p. (b) $ 824 $ 798 (a) reflects the interest expense, depreciation and amortization and income taxes included in discontinued operations. (b) adjusted ebitda was significantly affected in 2010 by $10 million of costs incurred related to successful acquisitions. prior to 2009, the costs were capitalized as part of the acquisition. these costs are now expensed and deducted from net income and adjusted ebitda. for 2009, the accrual for a potential litigation settlement decreased adjusted ebitda by $41 million. ffo and ffo per diluted share. we present ffo and ffo per diluted share as a non-gaap measure of host inc. performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with gaap). we calculate ffo per diluted share for a given operating period as our ffo for such period divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period. nareit defines ffo as net income (calculated in accordance with gaap) excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate-related depreciation and amortization and adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. ffo is presented on a per share basis after making adjustments for the effects of dilutive securities, including the payment of preferred stock dividends, in accordance with nareit guidelines. we believe that ffo per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of host inc. operating performance and that presentation of ffo per diluted share, when combined with the primary gaap presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. by excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization and gains and losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of lesser significance in evaluating current performance, we believe that such a measure can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and between other reits, even though ffo per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of host inc. common stock. historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. as noted by nareit in its april 2002 white paper on funds from operations, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. for these reasons, nareit adopted the definition of ffo in order to promote an industry-wide measure of reit operating performance. we calculate ffo per diluted share, in accordance with standards established by nareit, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the nareit definition of ffo or calculate ffo per diluted share in accordance with nareit guidance. in addition, although ffo per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other reits, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-reits. this information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from 83 table of contents operations, or any other operating performance measure prescribed by gaap. cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the ffo per diluted share presentations. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows include depreciation, capital expenditures and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-gaap financial measures. additionally, ffo per diluted share should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. in addition, ffo per diluted share does not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to host inc. stockholders benefit. the following tables provide a reconciliation of net income available to common shareholders per share to ffo per diluted share for host inc. (in millions, except per share amounts): host inc. reconciliation of net loss available to common stockholders to funds from operations per diluted share year ended december 31, 2010 2009 net loss $ (132 ) $ (258 ) less: net loss attributable to non-controlling interests 2 6 dividends on preferred stock (4 ) (9 ) issuance costs of redeemed preferred stock (4 ) net loss available to common stockholders (138 ) (261 ) adjustments: (gains) losses on dispositions, net of taxes 2 (31 ) amortization of deferred gains and other property transactions, net of taxes (4 ) depreciation and amortization (a) 591 604 partnership adjustments 4 4 ffo of non-controlling interests of host l.p. (7 ) (7 ) funds from operations 452 305 adjustments for dilutive securities (b): assuming deduction of gain recognized for the repurchase of 2004 exchangeable debentures (c) (2 ) assuming conversion of 2004 debentures 13 diluted ffo (b)(d) $ 465 $ 303 diluted weighted average shares outstanding-eps 656.1 587.2 assuming issuance of common units granted under the comprehensive stock plan 2.9 1.8 assuming conversion of 2004 exchangeable debentures 21.2 diluted weighted average shares outstanding (d) 680.2 589.0 ffo per diluted share (b)(d) $ .68 $ .51 (a) in accordance with the guidance on ffo per diluted share provided by nareit, we do not adjust net income for the non-cash impairment charges when determining our ffo per diluted share. (b) earnings/loss per diluted share and ffo per diluted share in accordance with nareit are adjusted for the effects of dilutive securities. dilutive securities may include host inc. shares granted under host inc. comprehensive stock plans, preferred op units held by non-controlling partners, exchangeable debt securities and other non-controlling interests that have the option to convert their limited partnership interest to common op units. no effect is shown for securities if they are anti-dilutive. (c) during 2009, we repurchased $75 million of the 2004 debentures with a carrying value of $72 million for $69 million. the adjustments to dilutive ffo related to the 2004 debentures repurchased during the year include the $3 million gain on repurchase, net of interest expense on the repurchased exchangeable debentures. 84 table of contents (d) ffo per diluted share and earnings per diluted share were significantly affected by certain transactions, the effects of which are shown in the table below (in millions, except per share amounts): year ended december 31 2010 2009 net income (loss) ffo net income (loss) ffo gain (loss) on dispositions, net of taxes $ (2 ) $ $ 31 $ potential loss on litigation (1) (4 ) (4 ) (41 ) (41 ) non-cash impairment charges (2) (131 ) (131 ) gain (loss) on debt extinguishments (3) (22 ) (22 ) 7 7 preferred unit redemption (4) (4 ) (4 ) acquisition costs (5) (10 ) (10 ) (gain) loss attributable to non-controlling interests (6) 1 1 3 3 total $ (41 ) $ (39 ) $ (131 ) $ (162 ) diluted shares 656.1 680.2 587.2 589.7 per diluted share $ (.06 ) $ (.06 ) $ (.23 ) $ (.28 ) (1) includes the accrual in the first quarter of 2010 for an additional potential loss related to the 2009 litigation. (2) during 2009, we recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $131 million in accordance with gaap based on the difference between the fair value and the carrying amount of certain properties. (3) for 2010, these costs include those associated with the redemption of the series k and series m senior notes. for 2009, the costs include gain/losses associated with the repayment of exchangeable debentures and the term loan. additionally, as prescribed by the sharing agreement with the successor borrower in connection with the 2007 defeasance of a $514 million collateralized mortgage-backed security, we received $7 million for year ended december 31, 2009 and recorded the gain as a reduction of interest expense. (4) represents the original issuance costs of the class e preferred stock, which were redeemed on june 18, 2010. (5) represents costs incurred related to acquisitions and investments during 2010. previously, these costs would have been capitalized as part of the acquisition; however, under accounting requirements effective january 1, 2009 these costs are expensed and deducted from net income and ffo. (6) represents the portion of the significant items attributable to non-controlling partners of host l.p. comparable hotel operating results. we present certain operating results for our hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses, and adjusted operating profit, on a comparable hotel, or same store basis as supplemental information for investors of both host inc. and host l.p. we present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate-level costs and expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. we eliminate corporate-level costs and expenses because we believe property-level results provide investors with more specific insight into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels. we eliminate depreciation and amortization, because even though depreciation and amortization are property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. as noted earlier, because real estate values historically have risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. as a result of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses or operating profit and these comparable hotel operating results should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance. we present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period-to-period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel reits and hotel owners. in particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increases or decreases in revenues and/or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. while management believes that presentation of comparable hotel results is a same store supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or assess the operating performance of these hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable portfolio hotel results. for these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of gaap operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management. 85 table of contents the following table presents certain operating results and statistics for our comparable hotels for the periods presented herein: comparable hotel results for host inc. and host l.p. (in millions, except hotel statistics) year ended december 31, 2010 2009 number of hotels 108 108 number of rooms 59,125 59,125 percent change in comparable hotel revpar 5.8 % comparable hotel revenues room $ 2,591 $ 2,448 food and beverage 1,285 1,230 other 273 304 comparable hotel revenues (a) 4,149 3,982 comparable hotel expenses room 717 674 food and beverage 957 929 other 156 155 management fees, ground rent and other costs 1,437 1,386 comparable hotel expenses (b) 3,267 3,144 comparable hotel adjusted operating profit 882 838 non-comparable hotel results, net (c) 52 41 income (loss) from hotels leased from hpt and office buildings, net (d) (11 ) 1 depreciation and amortization (592 ) (615 ) corporate and other expenses (108 ) (116 ) operating profit $ 223 $ 149 (a) the reconciliation of total revenues per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel revenues is as follows: year ended december 31, 2010 2009 revenues per the consolidated statements of operations $ 4,437 $ 4,144 non-comparable hotel revenues (162 ) (113 ) business interruption insurance proceeds for comparable hotels 3 hotel revenues for the property for which we record rental income, net 48 42 income for hotels leased from hpt and office buildings (172 ) (84 ) adjustment for hotel revenues for comparable hotels to reflect marriott fiscal year for marriott-managed hotels (5 ) (7 ) comparable hotel revenues $ 4,149 $ 3,982 (b) the reconciliation of operating costs per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel expenses is as follows: year ended december 31, 2010 2009 operating costs and expenses per the consolidated statements of operations $ 4,214 $ 3,995 non-comparable hotel expenses (110 ) (75 ) hotel expenses for the property for which we record rental income 48 42 expense for hotels leased from hpt and office buildings (183 ) (83 ) adjustment for hotel expenses for comparable hotels to reflect marriott fiscal year for marriott-managed hotels (5 ) (4 ) depreciation and amortization (592 ) (615 ) corporate and other expenses (108 ) (116 ) gain on insurance settlement 3 comparable hotel expenses $ 3,267 $ 3,144 86 table of contents (c) non-comparable hotel results, net, includes the following items: (i) the results of operations of our non-comparable hotels whose operations are included in our consolidated statements of operations as continuing operations and (ii) the difference between the number of days of operations reflected in the comparable hotel results and the number of days of operations reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. (d) represents income less expense for hotels leased from hpt and office buildings. 87 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk all information in this section applies to host inc. and host l.p. interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. we have no derivative financial instruments held for trading purposes. we use derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks. our interest payments on 90% of our debt are fixed in nature (this percentage does not include $300 million of mortgage debt for which we have swapped fixed interest payments for floating interest payments), which largely mitigates the effect of changes in interest rates on our cash interest payments. valuations for mortgage debt and the credit facility are determined based on the expected future payments, discounted at risk-adjusted rates. the senior notes and the debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increase or decrease by 100 basis points, interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, our future earnings and cash flows by approximately $5 million in 2011. the table below presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. expected maturity date 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value ($ in millions) liabilities debt: fixed rate (1) $ 98 $ 515 $ 482 $ 1,286 $ 1,047 $ 1,825 $ 5,253 $ 5,665 average interest rate 6.40 % 6.40 % 6.43 % 6.75 % 6.99 % 7.16 % variable rate variable rate (1) $ 61 $ 52 $ 111 $ $ $ $ 224 $ 230 average interest rate (2) 4.96 % 7.37 % 7.50 % % % % total debt $ 5,477 $ 5,895 interest rate derivative interest rate swaps fixed to variable $ $ $ $ 300 $ $ $ 300 $ 289 average pay rate (2) 3.29 % 3.29 % 3.29 % 3.29 % % % average receive rate 5.531 % 5.531 % 5.531 % 5.531 % % % (1) the amounts are net of unamortized discounts and premiums. (2) the interest rate for our floating rate payments is based on the rate in effect as of december 31, 2010. no adjustments are made for forecasted changes in the rate. fair value interest rate swap derivatives. we currently have three interest rate swap agreements for an aggregate notional amount of $300 million related to the ritz-carlton, naples and newport beach marriott hotel &amp; spa mortgage loan in the amount of $300 million. we entered into the derivative instruments to hedge changes in the fair value of the fixed-rate mortgage that occur as a result of changes in the 3-month libor rate. as a result, we will pay a floating interest rate equal to the 3-month libor, plus a spread which ranges from 2.7% to 3.2%, as opposed to the fixed rate of 5.531%, on the notional amount of $300 million through march 1, 2014. during 2010 and 2009, the cash settlement received under the swap agreement decreased interest expense by $6 million and $1 million, respectively. 88 table of contents we have designated these derivatives as fair value hedges. the derivatives are valued based on the prevailing market yield curve on the date of measurement. if we were to increase the interest rates from the prevailing market yield curve, which for our reverse swaps is 3-month libor, by 25% at december 31, 2010, then the fair value of the swap would decrease $3 million. similarly, if we were to decrease the interest rates from the prevailing market yield curve by 25% at december 31, 2010, then the fair value of the swap would increase by $3 million. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. as of december 31, 2010, we recorded an asset of $10.6 million related to the fair value of the swaps. the change in the fair value of the derivative is largely offset by the corresponding change in the fair value of the underlying debt due to change in the 3-month libor rate, which is recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the debt. any difference between the change in the fair value of the swap and the change in the fair value in the underlying debt, which was not significant for the periods presented, is considered the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship and is recorded in net income/loss. exchange rate sensitivity as we have non-u.s. operations (specifically, the ownership of hotels in canada, chile, mexico, brazil, the united kingdom and new zealand and an investment in our european joint venture), currency exchange risk arises as a normal part of our business. to manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-u.s. hotels, where possible, we may enter into forward or option contracts. the foreign currency exchange agreements that we have entered into were strictly to hedge foreign currency risk and not for trading purposes. during 2010 and 2008, we entered into four foreign currency forward purchase contracts totaling 80 million (approximately $114 million) to hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in the european joint venture. pursuant to these transactions, we will sell the euro amount, and receive the u.s. dollar amount on the forward purchase date. these derivatives are considered a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation and are marked-to-market with changes in fair value and recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income within host inc. equity portion and host l.p. capital portion of their balance sheets. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. the following table summarizes our four foreign currency purchase contracts (in millions): transaction date transaction amount in euros transaction amount in dollars forward purchase date fair value as of change in december 31, fair value 2010 2009 2010 2009 february 2008 30 $ 43 august 2011 $ 2.8 $ (.1 ) $ 2.9 $ (1.8 ) february 2008 15 22 february 2013 2.2 .7 1.5 (1.2 ) may 2008 15 23 may 2014 2.9 1.1 1.8 (1.4 ) july 2010 20 26 october 2014 (1.0 ) (1.0 ) total 80 $ 114 $ 6.9 $ 1.7 $ 5.2 $ (4.4 ) 89 table of contentsrisk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. financial risks and risks of operation our revenues and the value of our properties are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. the lodging industry is subject to changes in the travel patterns of business and leisure travelers, both of which are affected by the strength of the economy, as well as other factors. changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results. during the recession in 2008 and 2009, overall travel was reduced, which had a significant effect on our results of operations. while operating results improved during 2010 and 2011, uncertainty in the strength and direction of the recovery and continued high unemployment have slowed the pace of the overall economic recovery. therefore, there can be no assurance that any increases in hotel revenues or earnings at our properties will continue for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, slower than anticipated growth in the economy. our results of operations and any forecast we make, may be affected by, and can change based on, a variety of circumstances that affect the lodging industry, including: changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate; changes in business and leisure travel patterns; the effect of terrorist attacks and terror alerts in the united states and internationally, as well as other geopolitical disturbances; supply growth in markets where we own hotels, which may adversely affect demand at our properties; the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to competing hotels; the performance of the managers of our hotels; outbreaks of disease and the impact on travel of natural disasters and weather; changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and unionization of the labor force at our hotels. a reduction in our revenue or earnings as a result of the above risks may reduce our working capital, impact our long-term business strategy, and impact the value of our assets and our ability to meet certain covenants in our existing debt agreements. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our business and results of operations, our ability to obtain financing on reasonable and acceptable terms, and our ability to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. the united states and global equity and credit markets have at times experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions since 2008, all of which caused market prices of the stocks of many companies to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective and outstanding debt financings to widen considerably. these circumstances impacted liquidity in the financial markets, which made terms for financings less attractive, and, in some cases, resulted in the lack of availability of certain types of financing. conditions in the credit markets improved in 2010 but have become more volatile again starting in the third quarter of 2011. continued uncertainty in the equity and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional short-term and long-term financing on reasonable terms or at all, which would negatively impact our liquidity and financial condition. a prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may negatively impact our ability to enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. disruptions in the financial markets also may adversely affect our credit rating. while we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity with which to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our operating results weaken significantly and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 18 table of contents concerns regarding the downgrade of the u.s. credit rating and the sovereign debt crisis in europe could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. on august 5, 2011, standard &amp; poor lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the united states of america from aaa to aa+. while u.s. lawmakers reached agreement to raise the federal debt ceiling on august 2, 2011, the downgrade reflected standard &amp; poor view that the fiscal consolidation plan within that agreement fell short of what would be necessary to stabilize the u.s. government medium term debt dynamics. this downgrade could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions in the united states and throughout the world and, in turn, the market anticipation of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. in particular, it could disrupt payment systems, money markets, long-term or short-term fixed income markets, foreign exchange markets, commodities markets and equity markets and adversely affect the cost and availability of funding and certain impacts, such as increased spreads in money market and other short term rates, some of which have been experienced already. because of the unprecedented nature of negative credit rating actions with respect to u.s. government obligations, the ultimate impacts on global markets and our business, financial condition and liquidity are unpredictable and may not be immediately apparent. on january 13, 2012, standard &amp; poor lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on france, italy and seven other european countries, which has negatively impacted global markets and economic conditions. the continued uncertainty over the outcome of these governments and other european union ( eu ) member states financial support programs and the possibility that other eu member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. in particular, it has and could in the future disrupt equity markets and result in volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of eu members. these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. we have properties in some eu member states, held through our european joint venture, that have experienced difficulties servicing their sovereign debt, including italy and spain, and the results of operations at those hotels also could be adversely affected. economic conditions may adversely affect the value of our hotels which may result in impairment charges on our properties. we analyze our assets for impairment in several situations, including when a property has current or projected losses from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when other material trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred, such that an asset carrying value may not be recoverable. for impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property carrying value over its fair value. our operating results for 2009 and 2011 included $131 million and $8 million, respectively, of impairment charges related to our consolidated hotels and the investment in our european joint venture. we may incur additional impairment charges in the future, which charges will negatively affect our results of operations. we can provide no assurance that any impairment loss recognized would not be material to our results of operations. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies. we depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. unlike regular c corporations, host inc. must finance its growth and fund debt repayments largely with external sources of capital because it is required to distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain) in order to qualify as a reit, including taxable income recognized for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which it does not receive cash. funds used by host inc. to make required distributions are provided through distributions from host l.p. our ability to access external capital could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including credit market conditions as discussed above, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, or decreases in the market price of the common stock of host inc. our ability to access additional 19 table of contents capital also may be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness which, under certain circumstances, restrict our incurrence of debt and the payment of dividends and host l.p. distributions. the occurrence of any of these factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future growth. we have substantial debt and may incur additional debt. as of december 31, 2011, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $5.75 billion. our substantial indebtedness requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, dividends and distributions and other general corporate needs. additionally, our substantial indebtedness could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our debt or to obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate needs on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all; or affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. if our cash flow and working capital are not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we will have to raise additional funds through: sales of our op units or common stock; the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by host l.p.; or the sale of our assets. we cannot make any assurances that any of these sources of funds will be available to us or, if available, will be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient to meet our obligations or fulfill our business plan. under certain circumstances we would be required to use the cash from some of the events described above to repay other indebtedness. the terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and these restrictions reduce our operational flexibility and create default risks. the documents governing the terms of our existing senior notes and our credit facility contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. these covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to: conduct acquisitions, mergers or consolidations, unless the successor entity in such transaction assumes our indebtedness; incur additional debt in excess of certain thresholds and without satisfying certain financial metrics; create liens securing indebtedness, unless an effective provision is made to secure our other indebtedness by such liens; sell assets without using the proceeds from such sales for certain permitted uses or to make an offer to repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness; make distributions without satisfying certain financial metrics; and conduct transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis and, in certain instances, without obtaining opinions as to the fairness of such transactions. in addition, certain covenants in our credit facility also require us and our subsidiaries to meet financial performance tests. the restrictive covenants in the applicable indenture(s), the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration 20 table of contents of all or a substantial portion of our debt. for a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial condition. our ability to pay dividends and to make distributions may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness or preferred units. we are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on classes and series of host inc. capital stock and host l.p. payment of distributions on its classes of units. under the terms of host l.p. credit facility and senior notes indenture, distributions to host l.p. unitholders, including host inc., upon which host inc. depends in order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, are permitted only to the extent that host l.p. can satisfy certain financial covenant tests (concerning leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest coverage) and meet other requirements. we are permitted under our credit facility and senior notes indenture to make distributions of estimated taxable income that are necessary to maintain host inc. reit status. under the terms of host l.p. outstanding preferred op units, we are not permitted to make distributions on our common op units unless all cumulative distributions have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for payment) on our preferred op units. in the event that we fail to pay the accrued distributions on our preferred op units for any reason, including any restriction on making such distributions under the terms of our debt instruments (as discussed above), distributions will continue to accrue on such preferred op units and we will be prohibited from making any distributions on our common op units until all such accrued but unpaid distributions on our preferred op units have been paid (or funds for such payment have been set aside). an increase in interest rates would increase the interest costs on our credit facility and on our floating rate debt and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. interest payments for borrowings on our credit facility, the mortgages on nine properties and the fixed-to- floating interest rate swaps linked to two other properties are based on floating rates. as a result, an increase in interest rates will reduce our cash flow available for other corporate purposes, including investments in our portfolio. further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures and increase interest costs on any debt that is refinanced. we may from time to time enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts. currently, all of the mortgages with floating rates, which are secured by nine of our hotel properties, are fully or partially hedged through the use of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps or interest rate caps and floors. while these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of assets as part of our business strategy. rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. our senior notes are rated by moody investors service, standard &amp; poor ratings services and fitch ratings. these independent rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes at any time. such downgrades may affect negatively our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. our expenses may not decrease if our revenue decreases. many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt-service payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the hotels. our expenses also will be affected by inflationary increases, and certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. in the event of a significant decrease in demand, we may not be able to reduce the size of hotel work forces in order to decrease wages and benefits. our managers also may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. any of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures also could adversely affect the future growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties. 21 table of contents our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. as part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire luxury and upper upscale hotel properties. we may acquire properties through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other reits or similar real estate entities. we anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from host inc. equity offerings, issuance of limited partnership interests of host l.p., advances under our credit facility, the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness and proceeds from the sales of assets. continued disruptions in credit markets may limit our ability to finance acquisitions and may limit the ability of purchasers to finance hotels and adversely affect our disposition strategy and our ability to use disposition proceeds to finance acquisitions. we may, from time to time, be in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions. we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from such acquisitions. our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our forfeiture of deposits in connection with our failure to consummate an acquisition or our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities in connection with completed acquisitions. we do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. our cash flow from our hotels may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. while we monitor the hotel managers performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. in addition, from time to time, we have had, and continue to have, differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. we generally resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. however, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in, or provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, all of which may result in conflicts of interest. as a result, our hotel managers have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interest. we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our consolidated hotels (other than at our new zealand and australian properties), we still are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. from time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. we also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events. the resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. we do not have the ability to affect the outcome of these negotiations. 22 table of contents our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and potentially significant capital expenditures in order to remain competitive in the marketplace, maintain brand standards or to comply with applicable laws or regulations. the timing and costs of such renovations or improvements may result in reduced operating performance during construction and may not improve the return on these investments. we are required by our loan agreements or agreements with our hotel managers to make agreed upon capital expenditures. in addition, we will need to make further capital expenditures in order to remain competitive with other hotels, to maintain the economic value of our hotels and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. the timing of these improvements can affect hotel performance, particularly if the improvements require closures of a significant number of rooms or other features of the hotels, such as ballrooms, meeting space and restaurants. these capital improvements reduce the availability of cash for other purposes and are subject to cost overruns and delays. in addition, because we depend on external sources of capital, we may not have the necessary funds to invest and, if we fail to maintain our properties in accordance with brand standards set by our managers, the manager may terminate the management agreement. moreover, we may not necessarily realize a significant, or any, improvement in the performance of the hotels in which we make these investments. the ownership of hotels outside the united states and the expansion of our business into new markets outside of the united states will expose us to risks relating to owning hotels in those foreign markets. part of our business strategy is to expand our presence outside of the united states. as of december 31, 2011, we own directly 16 hotels located outside the united states. we also are party to a joint venture that owns 13 hotels in europe and to a joint venture that owns a non-controlling interest in seven hotels in development in india. we may have difficulty managing our expansion into new geographic markets where we have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area, or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures and regulations. there are risks inherent in conducting business outside of the united states, which include: employment laws and practices; tax laws, which may provide for income or other taxes or tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that foreign earnings that are repatriated, directly or indirectly, are subject to dividend withholding tax requirements or other restrictions; compliance with and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy; the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing and changes in the availability, cost and terms of such financing; adverse changes in local, political, economic and market conditions; insurance coverage related to terrorist events; changes in interest rates and/or currency exchange rates; regulations regarding the incurrence of debt; and difficulties in complying with u.s. rules governing reits while operating outside of the united states. any of these factors could affect adversely our ability to obtain all of the intended benefits of our foreign country expansion. if we do not effectively manage this expansion and successfully integrate the foreign hotels into our organization, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. we may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. we have made investments in joint ventures in europe and asia and are exploring further investment opportunities in asia, europe and latin america. we may, from time to time, invest as a co-venturer in other entities holding hotel properties instead of purchasing hotel properties directly. investments in joint ventures may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. co-venturers often share control over the operation of a joint venture. actions by a co-venturer also could subject the assets to additional risks as a result of any of the following circumstances: our co-venturer might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint venture s, interests or goals; or our co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives. 23 table of contents although generally we will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture in order to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers from focusing their time and effort on our business. our management agreements could affect the sale or financing of our hotels. under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer our hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets specified other conditions. our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager consent. if the manager does not consent to such sale or financing, we may be precluded from taking actions in our best interest. our mortgage debt contains provisions that may reduce our liquidity. certain of our mortgage debt requires that, to the extent cash flow from the hotels which secure such debt drops below stated levels, we escrow cash flow after the payment of debt service until operations improve above the stated levels. in some cases, the lender has the right under certain circumstances to apply the escrowed amount to the outstanding balance of the mortgage debt. if such provisions are triggered, there can be no assurance that the affected properties will achieve the minimum cash flow levels required to trigger a release of any escrowed funds. the amounts required to be escrowed may affect negatively our liquidity by limiting our access to cash flow after debt service from these mortgaged properties. we may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. we obtain terrorism insurance as part of our all-risk property insurance program, as well as our general liability and directors and officers coverage. however, our all-risk policies have limitations, such as per occurrence limits, annual aggregate coverage limits and sublimits, all of which might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. also, all-risk insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act ( tripra ). property damage related to war and to nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. while tripra will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical perils, tripra does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. we have a wholly-owned captive insurance company through which we obtain a policy for nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) coverage. this captive insurer has the same ability as other insurance companies to apply to the u.s. treasury for reimbursement, as provided for in tripra, and is subject to the same deductibles and co-insurance obligations. this potential reimbursement applies to property insurance only, and not to general liability or directors and officers insurance, and there are no assurances that we will be able to recover any or all of our nbcr losses under this program. we may be unable to satisfy the insurance requirements of our lenders. certain of the mortgage debt agreements for our properties and properties held by our european joint venture require us to maintain property insurance provided by carriers maintaining minimum ratings from standard &amp; poor s, a.m. best or other rating agencies. several of our mortgages contain requirements for the financial strength of insurers to be rated as high as aa by standard &amp; poor s. due to upheavals in the financial markets, the number of insurers that carry that rating has been decreasing for a number of years. in 2009, 2010 and 2011, in cases where our insurance carriers did not meet the minimum financial strength requirements (there were two such cases in 2011), 24 table of contents we were able to obtain waivers from the lenders or they have provided written assurances that they are satisfied with the makeup of our pool of insurance providers. we cannot provide assurances that each of our lenders will continue to be satisfied with our insurance coverage, or with the rating levels of our carriers, or that our carriers will not be downgraded further. if any of these lenders becomes dissatisfied with our insurance coverage or the ratings of our insurance carriers, they may, on our behalf and in addition to other remedies, elect to procure additional property insurance coverage that meets their ratings requirements. the cost of such additional property insurance would be borne by the property or properties securing the loans. also, the premiums associated with such coverage may be considerably higher than those associated with our current insurance coverage. some potential losses are not covered by insurance. we, or our hotel managers, carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. these policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar types of properties. generally, our all-risk property policies provide coverage that is available on a per-occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, has an overall limit, as well as various sub-limits, on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. sub-limits exist for certain types of claims, such as service interruption, debris removal, expediting costs, landscaping replacement and natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes, and may be subject to annual aggregate coverage limits. the dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. in this regard, hotels in certain of our markets, including california, florida and new zealand, have in the past been and continue to be particularly susceptible to damage from natural disasters. recovery under the applicable policies also is subject to substantial deductibles and complex calculations of lost business income. there is no assurance that this insurance, where maintained, will fully fund the re-building or restoration of a hotel that is impacted by an earthquake, hurricane, or other natural disaster, or the income lost as a result of the damage. our property policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case where the manager of one of our hotels provides this coverage, any such claims will be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the manager program for the same purpose. therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, or, in the case of hotels where coverage is provided by the manager, affects hotels owned by others, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached. each affected hotel only may receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. we may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive complete coverage for risks that affect multiple properties, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, or certain types of terrorism. in addition, there are other risks, such as certain environmental hazards, that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify coverage. we also may encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur, or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all or a part of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. in that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. litigation judgments or settlements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. we have accrued a potential litigation loss of approximately $56 million in connection with a lawsuit in the 166 th judicial district court of bexar county, texas involving the sale of land encumbered by a ground lease for the san antonio marriott rivercenter. see legal proceedings for more information on the verdict and the status of the appeal. we also are involved in various other legal proceedings in the normal course of business and are vigorously defending these claims; however, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of any pending legal proceedings. we believe, based on currently available information, that the results of such proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but might be material to our operating results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the operating results for such period. 25 table of contents we also could become the subject of future claims by the operators of our hotels, individuals or companies who use our hotels, our investors, our joint venture partners or regulating entities and these claims could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. we may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to hotels or businesses we acquire. assets and entities that we have acquired, or may in the future acquire, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. in general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements may not survive long enough for us to become aware of such liabilities and seek recourse against our sellers. while usually we require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification often is limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. as a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with acquired hotels and entities may exceed our expectations, plus we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. finally, indemnification agreements between us and the sellers typically provide that the sellers will retain certain specified liabilities relating to the assets and entities acquired by us. while the sellers generally are contractually obligated to pay all losses and other expenses relating to such retained liabilities without regard to survival limitations, materiality thresholds, deductibles or caps on losses, there can be no guarantee that such arrangements will not require us to incur losses or other expenses in addition to those incurred by the sellers. we depend on our key personnel. our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. none of our key personnel have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. we cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. while we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. exchange rate fluctuations could affect adversely our financial results. as a result of the expansion of our foreign operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the euro, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the australian dollar, the new zealand dollar, the british pound, the polish zloty, the brazilian real and the chilean peso. in 2011, these currencies represented approximately 6% of our revenues. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and other foreign currencies, these transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. to the extent that we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with expenses paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate revenues or earnings in other currencies, the conversion of such amounts into u.s. dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of our revenues or earnings. applicable reit laws may restrict certain business activities. as a reit, host inc. is subject to various restrictions on the types of income it can earn, assets it can own and activities in which it can engage. business activities that could be impacted by applicable reit laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units. due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will conduct certain business activities, including those mentioned above, in one or more of our taxable reit subsidiaries. our taxable reit subsidiaries are taxable as regular c corporations and are subject to federal, state, local, and, if applicable, foreign taxation on their taxable income. 26 table of contents we may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are inherently illiquid. real estate properties generally cannot be sold quickly and, accordingly, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. the inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could affect adversely our financial condition and the ability to service our debt. in addition, under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits, we may be limited in our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive on the hotels located on the leased properties. as of december 31, 2011, 38 of our hotels are subject to third-party ground leases (encumbering all or a portion of the hotel). these ground leases generally require periodic increases in ground rent payments, which are often based on economic indicators such as the consumer price index. our ability to pay ground rent could be adversely affected to the extent that our hotel revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. in addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would be required to assume the ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. we believe that our properties comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws. unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and remediate hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. the owner or operator may be required to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, and for investigation and remediation costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. these laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. compliance with other government regulations can be costly. our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including title iii of the americans with disabilities act ( ada ), building codes and regulations pertaining to fire and life safety. under the ada, all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. these laws and regulations may be changed from time-to-time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. for example, the ada was substantially revised in september 2010 and our facilities must comply with the new regulations by march 15, 2012. a determination that we are not in compliance with the ada could result in a court order to bring the hotel into compliance, imposition of fines or an award of attorneys fees to private litigants. compliance with the ada and other laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 27 table of contents risks of ownership of host inc. common stock there are limitations on the acquisition of host inc. common stock and changes in control. host inc. charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of host l.p., and the maryland general corporation law contain a number of provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for host inc. stockholders or host l.p. unitholders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: restrictions on transfer and ownership of host inc. stock. to maintain host inc. qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of host inc. outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned in the last half of the taxable year, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, which, as defined in the internal revenue code (the code ), may include certain entities. because such ownership could jeopardize host inc. qualification as a reit, a person cannot own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of an interest in a host inc. lessee, nor can a host inc. lessee of any partnership in which host inc. is a partner own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of host inc. shares, in each case unless exempted by host inc. board of directors. host inc. charter prohibits ownership, directly or by attribution, by any person or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of shares of host inc. outstanding common stock, preferred stock or any other class or series of stock, each considered as a separate class or series for this purpose. together, these limitations are referred to as the ownership limit. stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the intended acquirer of the stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares of stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the stock or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares of host inc. stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of host inc. stock in excess of the ownership limit. these restrictions on transfer and ownership will not apply if host inc. board of directors determines that it is no longer in host inc. best interests to continue to qualify as a reit or that compliance with the restrictions on transfer and ownership is no longer required for host inc. to qualify as a reit. removal of board of directors. host inc. charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. vacancies on host inc. board of directors may be filled, at any regular meeting or at any special meeting called for that purpose, by the affirmative vote of the remaining directors, except that a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority vote of the entire board of directors. any vacancy resulting from the removal of a director by the stockholders may be filled by the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. host inc. charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that host inc. has authority to issue is 1,100,000,000, consisting of 1,050,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. host inc. board of directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock and preferred stock into other classes or series of stock, including common stock into preferred stock or vice versa, and to establish the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption for each class or series. because host inc. board of directors has this power, it may give the holders of any class or series of stock terms, preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock. 28 table of contents maryland business combination law. under the maryland general corporation law, specified business combinations include mergers, consolidations, share exchanges, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, between a maryland corporation and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation then outstanding shares, or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time during the two year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation (each, an interested stockholder ), or an affiliate of the interested stockholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. thereafter, any of these specified business combinations must be approved by 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation and by two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder unless, among other conditions, the corporation common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the maryland general corporation law, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder. as a maryland corporation which has not opted out of these provisions, host inc. is subject to the maryland business combination statute. the statute provides various exemptions from its provisions, including for business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors before the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. the board of directors has not granted any such exceptions at this time. maryland control share acquisition law. under the maryland general corporation law, control shares acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights, except to the extent approved by the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. control shares are voting shares which, if aggregated with all other voting shares owned by the acquiror or over which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (1) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (2) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (3) a majority or more of all voting power. control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. a control share acquisition means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specified exceptions. our bylaws contain a provision exempting us from the control share provisions of the maryland general corporation law. there can be no assurance that this bylaw provision exempting us from the control share provisions will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of host inc. assets. under maryland law and host inc. charter, subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer host inc. assets within the meaning of the maryland general corporation law if approved (1) by host inc. board of directors in the manner provided in the maryland general corporation law, and (2) by host inc. stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger of host inc. with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing host inc. form of organization from a corporation to a trust requires only the approval of host inc. stockholders holding a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the merger. under the maryland general corporation law, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange is only required to be approved by the board of directors of a maryland corporation if the corporation is the successor entity. host inc. voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. certain charter and bylaw amendments. host inc. charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transfer and ownership of host inc. stock, fixing the size of the board of directors within the range set forth in the charter, removal of directors, the filling of vacancies, exculpation and indemnification of directors, calling special stockholder meetings and others, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by host inc. stockholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. other charter amendments generally require approval of the 29 table of contents board and the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. as permitted under the maryland general corporation law, host inc. charter and bylaws provide that the board of directors has the exclusive right to amend host inc. bylaws. these provisions may make it more difficult to amend host inc. charter and bylaws to alter the provisions described herein that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control or the acquisition of host inc. common stock, without the approval of the board of directors. shares of host inc. common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price of host inc. common stock. sales of a substantial number of shares of host inc. common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for host inc. common stock. in addition, holders of op units who redeem their units and receive, at host inc. election, shares of host inc. common stock will be able to sell those shares freely. as of december 31, 2011, there are approximately 10.5 million op units outstanding that are redeemable, which represents approximately 1.5% of all outstanding shares. further, a substantial number of shares of host inc. common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans. we maintain two stock-based compensation plans: (i) the comprehensive stock plan, whereby we may award to participating employees and directors restricted shares of common stock, options to purchase common stock and deferred shares of common stock, and (ii) an employee stock purchase plan. at december 31, 2011, there were approximately 19 million shares of host inc. common stock reserved and available for issuance under the comprehensive stock plan and employee stock purchase plan and 1.3 million outstanding options exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $7.68 per share. also as of december 31, 2011, host l.p. had outstanding $963 million principal amount of exchangeable senior debentures that could become exchangeable, under certain conditions, for shares of host inc. common stock. the principal portion for $388 million face amount of such exchangeable debentures is cash settled, and therefore no shares would be issued, unless host inc. share price exceeded the exchange rate for this series of debentures of $31.23 as of december 31, 2011. for another $400 million of such exchangeable debentures, host inc. has the option to issue cash, shares of host inc. common stock or any combination thereof in settlement of the debentures, should they be presented for exchange. on april 21, 2011, we entered into a sales financing agreement with bny mellon capital markets, llc, through which host inc. may issue and sell, from time to time, shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $400 million. the sales will be made in at the market offerings under sec rules, including sales made directly on the nyse. bny mellon capital markets, llc is acting as sales agent. host inc. may sell shares of common stock under its program, from time to time, based on market conditions, although it is not under an obligation to sell any shares. as of december 31, 2011, $226 million of host inc. common stock have been issued and sold pursuant to the program. shares of host inc. common stock, having an aggregate offering price of approximately $174 million, remain issuable from time to time under the agreement. any additional shares of common stock issued by host inc., whether issued under this program or otherwise, would be available in the future for sale in the public markets. our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of host inc. common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit equity securities is based primarily upon the market perception of the reit growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets. for that reason, shares of host inc. common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent that we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may impact negatively the market price of host inc. common stock. our failure to meet the market expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions likely would affect adversely the market price of host inc. common stock. 30 table of contents market interest rates may affect the price of shares of host inc. common stock. we believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a reit is the dividend rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher dividend rate. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of host inc. common stock to decrease. federal income tax risks to qualify as a reit, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits are required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain, regardless of available cash or outstanding obligations. to continue to qualify as a reit, host inc. is required to distribute to its stockholders with respect to each year at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain. to the extent that host inc. satisfies this distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income and net capital gain for the taxable year, it will be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on its undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. in addition, host inc. will be subject to a nondeductible 4% excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by host inc. with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of (1) 85% of its ordinary income, (2) 95% of its net capital gain, and (3) any undistributed taxable income from prior years, less excess distributions from prior years. host inc. intends to make distributions, subject to the availability of cash and in compliance with any debt covenants, to its stockholders in order to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid the imposition of a significant nondeductible 4% excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from host l.p. and its subsidiaries. there are differences in timing between host inc. recognition of taxable income and its receipt of cash available for distribution due to, among other things, the seasonality of the lodging industry and the fact that some taxable income will be phantom taxable income, which is taxable income that is not matched by cash flow. due to transactions entered into in years prior to host inc. conversion to a reit, host inc. could recognize substantial amounts of phantom taxable income in the future. it is possible that any differences between the recognition of taxable income and the receipt of the related cash could require us to borrow funds or for host inc. to issue additional equity in order to enable host inc. to meet its distribution requirements and, therefore, to maintain its reit status and to avoid the nondeductible 4% excise tax. in addition, because the reit distribution requirements prevent host inc. from retaining earnings, generally we will be required to refinance debt at its maturity with additional debt or equity. it is possible that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would not be sufficient to meet host inc. distribution and tax obligations. host l.p. owns 100% of the outstanding common stock and a portion of the outstanding preferred stock of two entities that have elected to be treated as reits. each of these subsidiary reits are subject to the same requirements that host inc. must satisfy in order to qualify as a reit, including the distribution requirements described above. adverse tax consequences would occur if host inc. or any of its subsidiary reits fail to qualify as a reit. we believe that host inc. has been organized and has operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a reit under the code, commencing with its taxable year beginning january 1, 1999, and host inc. currently intends to continue to operate as a reit during future years. in addition, host inc. owns, through host l.p., two entities that have elected to be treated as reits. as the requirements for qualification and taxation as a reit are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a reit are limited, no assurance can be provided that host inc. currently qualifies as a reit or will continue to qualify as a reit or that each of host inc. subsidiary reits qualify as a reit. if any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that host inc. would fail to qualify as a reit unless it (or the subsidiary reit) could avail itself of certain relief provisions. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change significantly the tax laws with respect to an entity qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of its reit qualification. if host inc. or any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, and any available relief provisions did not apply, the non-qualifying reit would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. moreover, unless entitled to statutory relief, the non-qualifying reit would not qualify as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which reit qualification was lost. 31 table of contents any determination that host inc. or one of its subsidiary reits does not qualify as a reit will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could materially reduce the value of host inc. common stock. the additional tax liability of host inc. or the subsidiary reit for the year, or years, in which the relevant entity did not qualify as a reit would reduce its net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to stockholders. furthermore, the non-qualifying entity no longer would be required to make distributions to stockholders as a condition to reit qualification and all of its distributions to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary c corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. this means that, if host inc. were to fail to qualify as a reit, host inc. stockholders currently taxed as individuals would be taxed on those dividends at capital gain rates and host inc. corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case to applicable limitations under the code. host inc. failure to qualify as a reit also would cause an event of default under host l.p. credit facility, which default could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due thereunder, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under host l.p. outstanding debt securities. if our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. to qualify as a reit, host inc. must satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of its gross income must be passive income, such as rent. for the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our trs, which rental income currently constitutes substantially all of host inc. and each of our subsidiary reits gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, our leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. we believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the internal revenue service ( irs ) will agree with this characterization. if the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, neither host inc. nor either of our subsidiary reits would be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to reits and each likely would lose its reit status. if our affiliated lessees fail to qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. rent paid by a lessee that is a related party tenant of host inc. will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to reits. we lease substantially all of our hotels to our subsidiary that is taxable as a regular c corporation and that has elected to be treated as a taxable reit subsidiary with respect to host inc. so long as any affiliated lessee qualifies as a taxable reit subsidiary, it will not be treated as a related party tenant. we believe that our affiliated lessees have qualified and will continue to qualify, and that the taxable reit subsidiaries of each of our subsidiary reits have qualified and will continue to qualify, to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will not challenge the status of a taxable reit subsidiary for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in disqualifying any of our affiliated lessees (including the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits) from treatment as a taxable reit subsidiary, it is possible that host inc. or a subsidiary reit would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to reits and substantially all of its income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. if host inc. or a subsidiary reit failed to meet either the asset tests or the gross income tests, each likely would lose its reit status. despite the reit status of each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits, we remain subject to various taxes. one of the subsidiary reits of host inc. will be required to pay federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate on built-in gain recognized as a result of the sale of one or more of its hotel assets prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period, including certain hotels acquired from starwood and its affiliates in 2006. the total amount of gain on which the subsidiary reit would be subject to corporate income tax if all of its built-in gain assets were sold in a taxable transaction prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period would be material to it. in addition, we expect that we could recognize other substantial deferred tax liabilities in the future without any corresponding receipt of cash. 32 table of contents notwithstanding host inc. status as a reit, host inc. and our subsidiaries (including our subsidiary reits) are subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on their income and property. for example, host inc. and our subsidiary reits will pay tax on certain types of income that are not distributed and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable reit subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm length basis. moreover, the taxable reit subsidiaries of host inc. and our subsidiary reits are taxable as regular c corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent that they own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. host l.p. is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by host inc. if the irs were to challenge successfully host l.p. status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, host inc. would cease to qualify as a reit and would suffer other adverse consequences. we believe that host l.p. qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. as a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. instead, each of its partners, including host inc., is required to report and pay tax, if applicable, on such partner allocable share of its income. no assurance can be provided, however, that the irs will not challenge host l.p. status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating host l.p. as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, host inc. would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to reits and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a reit. if host l.p. fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or host inc. fails to qualify as a reit, either failure would cause an event of default under host l.p. credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under host l.p. outstanding debt securities. also, the failure of host l.p. to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes would cause it to become subject to federal, state and foreign corporate income tax, which tax would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including host inc. as a reit, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits is subject to limitations on its ownership of debt and equity securities. subject to certain exceptions, a reit generally is prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer to the extent that (1) the value of such securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets, (2) the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities, or (3) the reit owns more than 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. a reit is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. however, a reit may not own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 25% of the value of the reit total assets. if host inc. or any of its subsidiary reits were to violate these ownership limitations, each likely would lose its reit status. each of host inc. or its subsidiary reits may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. the federal income tax provisions applicable to reits provide that any gain realized by a reit on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% excise tax. under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. we intend to hold our hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels consistent with our investment objectives. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% excise tax. 33 table of contents risks relating to redemption of op units a holder who offers its op units for redemption may have adverse tax consequences. a holder whose op units are redeemed will be treated for federal and state income tax purposes as having sold the op units. the sale of these units is a taxable event and the holder thereof will be treated as realizing an amount equal to the sum of (1) the value of the common stock or cash the holder receives, and (2) the amount of host l.p. nonrecourse liabilities allocated to the redeemed op units. the gain or loss recognized by the holder of op units is measured by the difference between the amount realized by the holder and the holder basis in the op units redeemed (which basis includes the amount of host l.p. nonrecourse liabilities allocated to the redeemed op units). it is possible that the amount of gain and/or the tax liability related thereto that the holder recognizes and pays could exceed the value of the common stock or cash that the holder receives. if a holder of op units elects to offer them for redemption, the original receipt of the op units may be subject to tax. if a holder of op units elects to have its units redeemed, particularly within two years of receiving them, there is a risk that the original receipt of the op units may be treated as a taxable sale under the disguised sale rules of the internal revenue code. subject to several exceptions, the tax law generally provides that a partner contribution of property to a partnership and a simultaneous or subsequent transfer of money or other consideration from the partnership to the partner will be presumed to be a taxable sale. in particular, if money or other consideration is transferred by a partnership to a partner within two years of the partner contribution of property, the transactions are presumed to be a taxable sale of the contributed property, unless the facts and circumstances clearly establish that the transfers are not a sale. on the other hand, if two years have passed between the original contribution of property and the transfer of money or other consideration, the transactions will not be presumed to be a taxable sale, unless the facts and circumstances clearly establish that they should be so treated. differences between an investment in shares of host inc. common stock and op units may affect redeemed holders of op units. if a holder of op units elects to have op units redeemed, we will determine whether the holder receives cash or shares of host inc. common stock in exchange for the op units. although an investment in shares of host inc. common stock is substantially similar to an investment in op units, there are some differences between ownership of op units and ownership of host inc. common stock. these differences include form of organization, management structure, voting rights, liquidity and federal income taxation, some of which may be material to investors. 34 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 90 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 73 table of contents asian joint venture. we have a 25% interest in the asian jv, which is structured as a singapore corporation with reco hotels jv private limited, an affiliate of gic re, to explore investment opportunities in various markets throughout asia and the pacific region. the initial term of the asian jv is for a period of seven years. due to the ownership structure and the substantive participating rights of the non-host limited partner, including approval over financing, acquisitions and dispositions, and annual operating and capital expenditure budgets, the asian jv is not consolidated in our financial statements. the commitment period for equity contributions to the asian jv expires in march 2012. we do not plan to extend the commitment period beyond the current expiration date; however, we will continue to explore opportunities to invest in asia with our strategic partners. during 2011, the asian jv invested approximately $53 million (of which our share was $13.3 million) of its $65 million commitment to acquire a 36% interest of a joint venture in india with accor s.a. and interglobe enterprises limited. this joint venture is developing seven properties, totaling approximately 1,750 rooms in three major cities in india, bengaluru, chennai and delhi. the hotels will be managed by accor under the pullman, ibis and novotel brands. the first two hotels are expected to be fully opened by march of 2012. hospitality properties trust . we own a leasehold interest in 53 courtyard by marriott properties, which properties were sold to hospitality properties trust ( hpt ) and leased back to us in 1995 and 1996. in conjunction with our conversion to a reit, we entered into subleases with barcel&oacute; crestline for these 53 properties, as well as 18 residence inn by marriott properties. in june 2010, hpt sent notices of default because the subtenants failed to meet net worth covenants, which would have triggered an event of default by us under the leases between us and hpt. as a result, we terminated the subleases effective july 6, 2010 and we resumed acting as owner under the management agreements. effective upon termination of the subleases, we recorded the operations of the hotels as opposed to rental income in 2010 and 2011. on december 30, 2011, we entered into a settlement with barcel&oacute; crestline, who had guaranteed rent payments to hpt as part of the sublease, related to the termination of the subleases, which resulted in an additional $7 million of income being recorded in 2011 to compensate us for a portion of our operating losses subsequent to the sublease termination. we terminated the master lease with hpt on the 18 residence inn properties effective december 31, 2010 and received $17.2 million of deferred proceeds related to the initial sale and additional amounts held in the tenant collection account. on november 23, 2010, we gave notice that we will not extend the lease on the 53 courtyard by marriott properties, which will result in termination of the lease effective december 31, 2012. at the expiration of the lease, hpt is obligated to pay us deferred proceeds related to the initial sale of approximately $51 million, subject to damages arising out of an event of default, if any, under the lease plus additional amounts held in a tenant collection account. tax sharing arrangements . under tax sharing agreements with former affiliated companies (such as marriott international, inc., hms host and barcel&oacute; crestline corporation), we are obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) relating to periods in which the companies were affiliated with us. for example, a taxing authority could adjust an item deducted by a former affiliate during the period that this former affiliate was owned by us. this adjustment could produce a tax liability that we may be obligated to pay under the tax sharing agreement. additionally, under the partnership agreement between host inc. and host l.p., host l.p. is obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) incurred by host inc., as well as any liabilities the irs may successfully assert against host inc. we do not expect any amounts paid under these tax sharing arrangements to be material. tax indemnification agreements. as a result of certain federal and state income tax considerations of the former owners of two hotels currently owned by host lp, we have agreed to restrictions on selling such hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods. one of these agreements expires in 2028 and the other in 2031. 74 table of contents guarantees . we have certain guarantees, which consist of commitments we have made to third parties for leases or debt, that are not recorded on our books due to various dispositions, spin-offs and contractual arrangements, but that we have agreed to pay in the event of certain circumstances, including default by an unrelated party. we consider the likelihood of any material payments under these guarantees to be remote. the largest guarantees (by dollar amount) are listed below: we remain contingently liable for rental payments on certain divested non-lodging properties. these primarily represent certain restaurants that were sold subject to our guarantee of the future rental payments. the aggregate amount of these future rental payments is approximately $14 million as of december 31, 2011. in 1997, we owned leisure park venture limited partnership, which currently owns and operates a senior living facility. we no longer have an ownership interest in the partnership, but remain obligated under a guarantee of interest and principal with respect to $14.7 million of municipal bonds issued by the new jersey economic development authority through their maturity in 2027. however, to the extent we are required to make any payments under the guarantee, we have been indemnified by barcel&oacute; crestline corporation, who, in turn, is indemnified by the current owner of the facility. in connection with the sale of two hotels in january 2005, we remain contingently liable for the amounts due under the respective ground leases. the future minimum lease payments are approximately $13 million through the full term of the leases, including renewal options. we believe that any liability related to these ground leases is remote and, in each case, we have been indemnified by the purchaser of the hotel. information on other guarantees and other off-balance sheet arrangements may be found in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements entitled guarantees and contingencies. contractual obligations. the table below summarizes our obligations for principal and estimated interest payments on our debt, future minimum lease payments on our operating and capital leases, projected capital expenditures and other long-term liabilities, each as of december 31, 2011 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years long-term debt obligations (1) $ 7,252 $ 748 $ 2,125 $ 2,512 $ 1,867 capital lease obligations 2 1 1 operating lease obligations 1,660 113 88 80 1,379 purchase obligations (2) 573 374 199 other long-term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet (3) 17 5 12 total $ 9,504 $ 1,236 $ 2,418 $ 2,592 $ 3,258 (1) the amounts shown include amortization of principal, debt maturities and estimated interest payments. interest payments have been included in this category based on the weighted average interest rate. (2) our only purchase obligations consist of commitments for capital expenditures at our hotels. under our contracts, we have the ability to defer some of these expenditures into later years. (3) the amounts shown include deferred management fees and the estimated amount of tax expense. under terms of our management agreements, we have deferred payment of management fees to our hotel managers for some of our properties that have not achieved the required income thresholds for payment of owner priority to us. the timing of the payments, if any, is based on future operations, the termination of the management agreement or the sale of the hotel, and is, therefore, not determinable. the estimated amount of tax expense relates to uncertain tax liabilities from prior years. 75 table of contents critical accounting policies our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with gaap, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. while we do not believe the reported amounts would be materially different, application of these policies involves the exercise of judgment and the use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to the impairment of long-lived assets, on an ongoing basis. we base our estimates on experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. all of our significant accounting policies are disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. the following represent certain critical accounting policies that require us to exercise our business judgment or make significant estimates. hotels acquired in a business combination . we record our investments in hotel properties based on the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at acquisition date. property and equipment are recorded at fair value and allocated to buildings, improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment using appraisals and valuations performed by management and independent third parties. fair values are based on the exit price (i.e. the price that would be received to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date). we evaluate several factors, including market data for similar assets, expected cash flows discounted at risk adjusted rates and replacement cost for the assets to determine an appropriate exit cost when evaluating the fair value of our assets. other items that we evaluate in a business combination include identifiable intangible assets, capital lease assets and obligations and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets are typically assumed contracts, including ground and retail leases and management and franchise agreements, which are recorded at fair value. above-market and below-market contract values are based on the present value of the difference between contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the contracts acquired and our estimate of the fair value of contract rates for corresponding contracts measured over the period equal to the remaining non-cancelable term of the contract. intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining non-cancelable term of the related agreements. capital lease obligations that are assumed as part of the acquisition of a leasehold interest are measured at fair value and included as debt on the accompanying balance sheet and we record the corresponding right-to-use assets. classification of a lease does not change if it is part of a business combination. in making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, we may utilize a number of sources that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of a property and other market data, including third-party appraisals and valuations. in certain situations, a deferred tax liability may be created due to the difference between the fair value and the tax basis of the asset at the acquisition date. any consideration paid in excess of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired would be recorded to goodwill. in very limited circumstances, we may record a bargain purchase gain if the consideration paid is less than the net fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. furthermore, acquisition-related costs, such as due diligence, legal and accounting fees, are not capitalized or applied in determining the fair value of the acquired assets. impairment testing. we analyze our assets for impairment throughout the year when events or circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying values thereof may not be recoverable. we consider a property to be impaired when the sum of future undiscounted cash flows over our remaining estimated holding period is less than the carrying value of the asset. for impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property carrying value over its fair value. to the extent that a property has a substantial remaining estimated useful life and management does not believe that it is more likely than not the property will be disposed of prior to the end of its useful life, it would be unusual for undiscounted cash flows to be insufficient to recover the property carrying value. in the absence of other factors, we assume that the estimated life is equal to the gaap depreciable life because of the continuous property maintenance and improvement capital expenditures required under our management agreements. we adjust our assumptions with respect to the remaining useful life of the property if situations dictate otherwise, such as an expiring ground lease, or it is more likely than not that the asset will be sold prior to its previously expected useful life. we also consider the effect of regular renewal and replacement capital expenditures on the estimable life of our properties, including critical infrastructure, which is regularly maintained and then replaced at the end of its useful life. 76 table of contents we test for impairment in several situations, including when a property has a current or projected loss from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when other events, trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred and the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. in the evaluation of the impairment of our assets, we make many assumptions and estimates, including: projected cash flows, both from operations and the eventual disposition; expected useful life and holding period; future required capital expenditures; and fair values, including consideration of capitalization rates, discount rates and comparable selling prices. while we consider all of the above indicators as a preliminary indicator to determine if the carrying value may not be recovered by undiscounted cash flows, we reviewed the actual year-to-date and the projected cash flows from operations to identify properties with actual or projected annual operating losses or minimal operating profit as of december 31, 2011. the projected cash flows consider items such as booking pace, occupancy, room rate and property-level operating costs. as a result of our review, we identified six properties that required further consideration of property and market specific conditions or factors to determine if the property was impaired using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. management considered a range of revpar and operating margins compared to prior years operating results in evaluating the projected cash flows from operations. to appropriately evaluate if the carrying value of the assets was recoverable, we projected a growth rate such that the individual properties would return to normalized levels of operations within five years and thereafter grow at a stabilized rate of 3% over the remaining estimable lives of the properties. this stabilized growth rate is lower than the projected growth rate for the urban upper upscale properties, which we believe is most representative of our portfolio, over the period from 2010 through 2020. based on this test, no properties exhibited an impaired value at december 31, 2011. for purposes of this test, if we had assumed a growth rate of 0% after the return to normalized levels of operations, none of the six properties identified above would have required further analysis. management believes its assumptions and estimates reflect current market conditions. during 2011, we recognized impairment expense in the aggregate amount of $8 million on two properties based on a change in their estimated hold periods. one of the properties was disposed of in 2011. other-than-temporary impairment of an investment. we review our equity method investments for other-than-temporary impairment based on the occurrence of any triggering events that would indicate that the carrying amount of the investment exceeds its fair value on an other-than-temporary basis. triggering events can include a decline in distributable cash flows from the investment, a change in the expected hold period or other significant events which would decrease the value of the investment. our investments primarily consist of joint ventures which own hotel properties; therefore, we generally will have few observable inputs and will determine the fair value based on a discounted cash flow analysis of the investment, as well as considering the impact of other elements (i.e. control premiums, etc.). we use certain inputs, such as available third-party appraisals and forecast net operating income for the hotel properties, to estimate the expected cash flows. if an equity method investment is impaired, a loss is recorded for the difference between its fair value and its carrying value. based on this test, no other-than-temporary impairment was recorded in 2011. classification of assets as held for sale. our policy for the classification of a hotel as held for sale is intended to ensure that the sale of the asset is probable prior to classifying it as such, will be completed within one year and that actions required to complete the sale are unlikely to change or that it is unlikely the planned sale will not occur. this policy is consistent with our experience with real estate transactions under which the timing and final terms of a sale are frequently not known until purchase agreements are executed, the buyer has a significant deposit at risk and no financing contingencies exist which could prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner. specifically, we typically will classify properties that we are actively marketing as held for sale when all of the following conditions are met: host inc. board of directors has approved the sale (to the extent that the dollar amount of the sale requires board approval); a binding agreement to purchase the property has been signed; the buyer has committed a significant amount of non-refundable cash; and no significant contingencies exist which could prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner. 77 table of contents to the extent that a property is classified as held for sale and its fair value less selling costs is lower than the net book value of the property, we will record an impairment loss. depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation expense is based on the estimated useful life of our assets and amortization expense for leasehold improvements is based on the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful life of the related assets. the lives of the assets are based on a number of assumptions, including cost and timing of capital expenditures to maintain and refurbish the assets, as well as specific market and economic conditions. while management believes its estimates are reasonable, a change in the estimated lives could affect depreciation expense and net income (loss) or the gain or loss on the sale of any of our hotels. valuation of deferred tax assets. we have approximately $125 million, net of a valuation allowance of $47 million, of deferred tax assets as of december 31, 2011. the objective of financial accounting and reporting standards for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in a company financial statements or tax returns. we have considered various factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future projected taxable income and tax planning strategies in determining a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets, and we believe that it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize the $125 million of net deferred tax assets in the future. when a determination is made that all, or a portion, of the deferred tax assets may not be realized, an increase in income tax expense would be recorded in that period. valuation of derivative contracts. we occasionally will enter into derivative products, including interest rate and foreign currency swaps, caps and collars. derivative instruments are subject to fair value reporting at each reporting date and the increase or decrease in fair value is recorded in net income (loss) or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), based on the applicable hedge accounting guidance. we estimate the fair value of these instruments through the use of third party valuations, which utilize the market standard methodology of netting the discounted future cash receipts and the discounted future expected cash payments. we incorporate credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both our own nonperformance risk and the respective counterparty nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. in adjusting the fair value of our derivative contracts for the effect of nonperformance risk, we have considered the impact of netting any applicable credit enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts and guarantees. the variable cash flow streams are based on an expectation of future interest and exchange rates derived from observed market interest and exchange rate curves. the values of these instruments will change over time as cash receipts and payments are made and as market conditions change. any event that impacts the level of actual and expected future interest or exchange rates will impact our valuations. the fair value of our derivatives is likely to fluctuate from year-to-year based on changing levels of interest and exchange rates and shortening terms to maturity. stock compensation. we recognize costs resulting from host inc. share-based payment transactions over their vesting periods. we classify share-based payment awards granted in exchange for employee services as either equity awards or liability awards. the classification of host inc. restricted stock awards as either an equity award or a liability award is based upon cash settlement options. equity classified awards are measured based on the fair value on the date of grant. liability classified awards are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. awards are classified as liability awards to the extent that settlement features allow the recipient to have a percentage of the restricted stock awards withheld to meet tax withholding requirements. the value of these restricted stock awards, less estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award the requisite service period (usually the vesting period). no compensation cost is recognized for awards for which employees do not render the requisite services. during 2009, host inc. implemented an employee stock plan for our senior management that covered the period 2009-2011 and included the following awards: restricted stock awards with vesting based on market conditions. these awards vest based on the total shareholder return relative to other reits and lodging companies. they are classified as liability awards due to their cash settlement features and are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. we utilize a simulation, or monte carlo model, to determine the fair value of host inc. restricted stock awards with vesting based on market conditions. the utilization of this model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of host inc. common stock, risk-free interest rates, the risk profile of our common shares compared to our peer group and the amount of host inc. awards expected to be forfeited. 78 table of contents restricted stock awards with vesting based on performance conditions. these awards are earned based on the employee achieving a specified performance target, which will be based on the employee specific management business objectives. compensation cost will be recognized when the achievement of the performance condition is considered probable. if a performance condition has more than one outcome that is probable, recognition of compensation cost will be based on the condition that is the most likely outcome. these awards are classified as liability awards due to their cash settlement provisions. therefore, the value of the shares to be issued by host inc. will be based on host inc. share price on the reporting date. stock option awards. the stock option awards are equity classified awards, as they do not include cash settlement features. therefore, the value of the award is determined on the grant date using a binomial pricing model and is not adjusted for future changes in fair value. vesting for these awards is based on service conditions. the utilization of the binomial model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates and the amount of our awards expected to be forfeited. on january 20, 2012, the compensation policy committee of the board of directors adopted a new compensation plan for senior management (the 2012 plan ), which plan replaces the expired compensation program discussed above. components of the 2012 plan include cash bonuses based on corporate and employee performance measures and grants of restricted stock that vest based on market conditions (total stockholder return relative to the nareit equity index, the s&amp;p 500 index, and select hospitality companies that serve as relevant industry/asset-specific competitors for capital) and performance conditions (employee specific management business objectives), as well as the issuance of stock options. consolidation policies. judgment is required with respect to the consolidation of partnership and joint venture entities in terms of the evaluation of control, including assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests that are not controllable through voting interests. we consolidate subsidiaries when we have the ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the subsidiary. for those partnerships and joint ventures of which we are the general partner, we review the rights of the limited partners to determine if those rights would preclude the assumption of control as the general partner. limited partner rights which would preclude presumption of control by the general partner include the substantive ability to dissolve (liquidate) the limited partnership or otherwise remove us, as the general partner, without cause and substantive participating rights, primarily through voting rights. we also evaluate our subsidiaries to determine if they should be considered variable interest entities ( vies ). if a subsidiary is a vie, it is subject to the consolidation framework specifically for vies. we consider an entity a vie if equity investors own an interest therein that does not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or if such investors do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support. in accordance with accounting standards codification ( asc ) 810, we reviewed our subsidiaries and affiliates to determine if (i) they should be considered vies, and (ii) whether we should change our consolidation determination based on changes in their characteristics. foreign currency translation. the operations of foreign subsidiaries are maintained in their functional currency, which generally is the local currency, and are translated to u.s. dollars using the average exchange rates for the period. the assets and liabilities are translated to u.s. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. the resulting translation adjustments are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). foreign currency transactions are recorded in the functional currency of each entity using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are remeasured at period end exchange rates. the resulting exchange differences are recorded in gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions and derivatives, except when deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as qualifying net investment hedges. 79 table of contents comparable hotel operating statistics we present certain operating statistics (i.e., revpar, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses and adjusted operating profit) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. we define our comparable hotels as properties (i) that are owned or leased by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations for the entirety of the reporting periods being compared, and (ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or business interruption, or undergone large-scale capital projects during the reporting periods being compared. of the 121 hotels that we owned on december 31, 2011, 104 have been classified as comparable hotels. the operating results of the following hotels that we owned or leased as of december 31, 2011 are excluded from comparable hotel results for these periods: hilton melbourne south wharf (acquired in april 2011); new york helmsley hotel (acquired in march 2011); manchester grand hyatt san diego (acquired in march 2011); the portfolio of seven hotels in new zealand (acquired in february 2011); jw marriott, rio de janeiro (acquired in september 2010); w new york, union square (acquired in september 2010); westin chicago river north (acquired in august 2010); atlanta marriott perimeter center (business interruption due to significant renovations); chicago marriott o hare (business interruption due to significant renovations); sheraton indianapolis hotel at keystone crossing (business interruption due to significant renovations); and san diego marriott marquis &amp; marina (business interruption due to significant renovations). the operating results of the le m&eacute;ridien piccadilly, which was transferred to the euro jv fund ii, and of the three hotels we disposed of in 2011 and 2010, as well as the 53 courtyard by marriott properties leased from hpt, are not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein. moreover, because these statistics and operating results relate to our hotel properties, they exclude results for our non-hotel properties and other real estate investments. we evaluate the operating performance of our comparable hotels based on both geographic region and property type. these divisions are generally consistent with groupings recognized in the lodging industry. geographic regions consist of the following (only states in which we own hotels are listed): pacific california, hawaii, oregon and washington; mountain arizona and colorado; north central illinois, indiana, minnesota, missouri and ohio; south central louisiana, tennessee and texas; new england connecticut, massachusetts and new hampshire; mid-atlantic pennsylvania, new jersey and new york; dc metro maryland, virginia and washington, d.c.; atlanta georgia and north carolina; florida florida; and international australia, brazil, canada, chile, mexico and new zealand. property types consist of the following: urban hotels located in primary business districts of major cities; suburban hotels located in office parks or smaller secondary markets; 80 table of contents resort/conference hotels located in resort/conference destinations such as arizona, florida, hawaii and southern california; and airport hotels located at or near airports. reporting periods. for consolidated statement of operations. the results we report are based on results of our hotels reported to us by our hotel managers. our hotel managers use different reporting periods. marriott, the manager of a significant percentage of our properties, uses a year ending on the friday closest to december 31 and reports twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year for its u.s. and canadian marriott-managed hotels. in contrast, other managers of our hotels, such as hyatt and starwood, report results on a monthly basis. host inc., as a reit, is required by federal income tax law to report results on a calendar year basis. as a result, we elected to adopt the reporting periods used by marriott, modified so that our fiscal year always ends on december 31 in order to comply with reit rules. our first three quarters of operations end on the same day as marriott, but our fourth quarter ends on december 31 and our full year results, as reported in our statement of operations, always includes the same number of days as the calendar year. two consequences of the reporting cycle we have adopted are: (1) quarterly start dates will usually differ between years, except for the first quarter which always commences on january 1, and (2) our first and fourth quarters of operations and year-to-date operations may not include the same number of days as reflected in prior years. for example, set forth below are the quarterly start and end dates for 2012, 2011 and 2010. note that the second and third quarters of each year both reflect twelve weeks of operations. in contrast, the first and fourth quarters reflect differing days of operations. 2012 2011 2010 start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days first quarter january 1 march 23 83 january 1 march 25 84 january 1 march 26 85 second quarter march 24 june 15 84 march 26 june 17 84 march 27 june 18 84 third quarter june 16 september 7 84 june 18 september 9 84 june 19 september 10 84 fourth quarter september 8 december 31 115 september 10 december 31 113 september 11 december 31 112 while the reporting calendar we adopted is more closely aligned with the reporting calendar used by marriott, another consequence of our calendar is that we are unable to report the month of operations that ends after our fiscal quarter-end until the following quarter because our hotel managers that use a monthly reporting period do not make mid-month results available to us. hence, the month of operation that ends after our fiscal quarter-end is included in our quarterly results of operations in the following quarter for those hotel managers (covering approximately 43% of total revenues of our hotels). as a result, our quarterly results of operations include results from hotel managers reporting results on a monthly basis as follows: first quarter (january, february), second quarter (march to may), third quarter (june to august) and fourth quarter (september to december). while this does not affect full year results, it does affect the reporting of quarterly results. for hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results. in contrast to the reporting periods for our consolidated statement of operations, our hotel operating statistics (i.e., revpar, average daily rate and average occupancy) and our comparable hotel results are reported based on the reporting cycle used by marriott for our marriott-managed hotels. this facilitates year-to-year comparisons, as each reporting period will be comprised of the same number of days of operations as in the prior year. this means, however, that the reporting periods we use for hotel operating statistics and our comparable hotel results typically will differ slightly from the reporting periods used for our statements of operations for the first and fourth quarters and the full year. set forth below are the quarterly start and end dates that are used for our hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results reported herein. results from hotel managers reporting on a monthly basis are included in our operating statistics and comparable hotel results consistent with their reporting in our consolidated statement of operations. 81 table of contents hotel result reporting periods for operating statistics and comparable hotel results for marriott managed properties 2012 2011 2010 start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days first quarter december 31 march 23 84 january 1 march 25 84 january 2 march 26 84 second quarter march 24 june 15 84 march 26 june 17 84 march 27 june 18 84 third quarter june 16 september 7 84 june 18 september 9 84 june 19 september 10 84 fourth quarter september 8 december 28 112 september 10 december 30 112 september 11 december 31 112 non-gaap financial measures we use certain non-gaap financial measures, which are measures of our historical financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with gaap, within the meaning of applicable sec rules. these measures are as follows: (i) ebitda and adjusted ebitda, as a measure of performance for host inc. and host l.p., (ii) funds from operations ( ffo ) and ffo per diluted share (both nareit and adjusted), as a measure of performance for host inc., and (iii) comparable hotel operating results, as a measure of performance for host inc. and host l.p. the following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful measures of our performance. ebitda and adjusted ebitda ebitda earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) is a commonly used measure of performance in many industries. management believes ebitda provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because it helps us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our properties after removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest expense) and our asset base (primarily depreciation and amortization). management also believes the use of ebitda facilitates comparisons between us and other lodging reits, hotel owners who are not reits and other capital-intensive companies. management uses ebitda to evaluate property-level results and as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and, like ffo and adjusted ffo per diluted share, it is widely used by management in the annual budget process and for compensation programs. adjusted ebitda historically, management has adjusted ebitda when evaluating host inc. and host l.p. performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance and that the presentation of adjusted ebitda, when combined with the primary gaap presentation of net income, is beneficial to an investor complete understanding of our operating performance. adjusted ebitda is also a relevant measure in calculating certain credit ratios. we adjust ebitda for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as adjusted ebitda: real estate transactions we exclude the effect of gains and losses, including the amortization of deferred gains, recorded on the disposition or acquisition of assets and property insurance gains in our consolidated statement of operations because we believe that including them in adjusted ebitda is not consistent with reflecting the ongoing performance of our assets. in addition, material gains or losses from the depreciated value of the disposed assets could be less important to investors given that the depreciated asset value often does not reflect its market value (as noted below for ffo). equity investment adjustments we exclude the equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated investments in partnerships and joint ventures as presented in our consolidated statement of operations because it includes our pro rata portion of depreciation, amortization and interest expense, which are excluded from ebitda. we include our pro rata share of the adjusted ebitda of our equity investments as we believe this more accurately reflects the performance of our investment. the pro rata adjusted ebitda of equity investments is defined as the ebitda of our equity investments adjusted for any gains or losses on property transactions multiplied by our percentage ownership in the partnership or joint venture. 82 table of contents consolidated partnership adjustments we deduct the non-controlling partners pro rata share of the adjusted ebitda of our consolidated partnerships as this reflects the non-controlling owners interest in the ebitda of our consolidated partnerships. the pro rata adjusted ebitda of non-controlling partners is defined as the ebitda of our consolidated partnerships adjusted for any gains or losses on property transactions multiplied by the non-controlling partners positions in the partnership or joint venture. cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle infrequently, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) promulgates new accounting standards that require the consolidated statement of operations to reflect the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. we exclude these one-time adjustments because they do not reflect our actual performance for that period. impairment losses we exclude the effect of impairment losses recorded because we believe that including them in adjusted ebitda is not consistent with reflecting the ongoing performance of our remaining assets. in addition, we believe that impairment charges are similar to gains (losses) on dispositions and depreciation expense, both of which are also excluded from ebitda. acquisition costs under gaap, costs associated with completed property acquisitions are expensed in the year incurred. we exclude the effect of these costs because we believe they are not reflective of the ongoing performance of the company. ebitda and adjusted ebitda, as presented, may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies. this information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with gaap. cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures), interest expense and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the ebitda and adjusted ebitda presentations. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include interest expense, capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-gaap financial measures. additionally, ebitda and adjusted ebitda should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. 83 table of contents the following table provides a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted ebitda (in millions): reconciliation of net loss to ebitda, adjusted ebitda year ended december 31, 2011 2010 net loss $ (16 ) $ (132 ) interest expense 371 384 depreciation and amortization 647 591 income taxes (1 ) (31 ) ebitda 1,001 812 losses on dispositions 2 acquisition costs 5 10 non-cash impairment charges 8 amortization of deferred gains (7 ) equity investment adjustments: equity in (earnings) losses of affiliates (4 ) 1 pro rata adjusted ebitda of equity investments 29 23 consolidated partnership adjustments: pro rata adjusted ebitda attributable to non-controlling partners in other consolidated partnerships (14 ) (14 ) adjusted ebitda $ 1,018 $ 834 nareit ffo, nareit ffo per diluted share and adjusted ffo per diluted share. we present nareit ffo and nareit ffo per diluted share as non-gaap measures of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with gaap). we calculate nareit ffo per diluted share as our nareit ffo (defined as set forth below) for a given operating period, as adjusted for the effect of dilutive securities, divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period in accordance with nareit guidelines. nareit defines ffo as net income (calculated in accordance with gaap), excluding gains (losses) from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate-related depreciation, amortization and impairments and adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect our pro rata ffo of those entities on the same basis. we believe that nareit ffo per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that the presentation of nareit ffo per diluted share, when combined with the primary gaap presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. by excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization, impairments and gains and losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of lesser significance in evaluating current performance, we believe such measures can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and with other reits, even though nareit ffo per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. as noted by nareit in its april 2002 white paper on funds from operations, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. for these reasons, nareit adopted the ffo metric in order to promote an industry-wide measure of reit operating performance. effective with this form 10-k, we also present adjusted ffo per diluted share when evaluating our performance because management believes that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance. while we are presenting adjusted ffo per diluted share as part of this form 10-k for the first time, management historically has made the adjustments detailed below in evaluating our performance, in our annual budget process and for our compensation programs. we believe that the presentation of adjusted ffo per diluted share, when combined with both the primary gaap presentation of earnings per share and ffo per diluted share as defined by nareit, 84 table of contents provides useful supplemental information that is beneficial to an investor complete understanding of our operating performance. we adjust nareit ffo per diluted share for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as adjusted ffo per diluted share: gains and losses on the extinguishment of debt we exclude the effect of finance charges and premiums associated with the extinguishment of debt, including the acceleration of deferred financing costs from the original issuance of the debt being redeemed or retired. we also exclude the gains on debt repurchases and the original issuance costs associated with the retirement of preferred stock. we believe that these items are not reflective of our ongoing finance costs. acquisition costs under gaap, costs associated with completed property acquisitions are expensed in the year incurred. we exclude the effect of these costs because we believe they are not reflective of the ongoing performance of the company. litigation gains and losses we exclude the effect of gains or losses associated with litigation recorded under gaap that we consider outside the ordinary course of business. we believe that including these items is not consistent with our ongoing operating performance. we calculate nareit ffo per diluted share in accordance with standards established by nareit, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the nareit definition of ffo or do not calculate ffo per diluted share in accordance with nareit guidance. in addition, although ffo per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other reits, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-reits. this information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with gaap. cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the nareit ffo per diluted share and adjusted ffo per diluted share presentations. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-gaap financial measures. additionally, nareit ffo per diluted share and adjusted ffo per diluted share should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. in addition, nareit ffo per diluted share and adjusted ffo per diluted share do not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to the benefit of host inc. stockholders. 85 table of contents the following tables provide a reconciliation of net loss available to common stockholders per share to ffo per diluted share for host inc. (in millions, except per share amounts): host inc. reconciliation of net loss available to common stockholders to nareit and adjusted funds from operations per diluted share year ended december 31, 2011 2010 net loss $ (16 ) $ (132 ) less: net loss attributable to non-controlling interests 1 2 dividends on preferred stock (4 ) issuance costs of redeemed preferred stock (4 ) net loss available to common stockholders (15 ) (138 ) adjustments: losses on dispositions, net of taxes 2 amortization of deferred gains and other property transactions, net of taxes (7 ) depreciation and amortization 645 591 non-cash impairment charges 8 partnership adjustments 4 4 ffo of non-controlling interests of host lp (9 ) (7 ) nareit funds from operations 626 452 adjustments to nareit ffo: losses on the extinguishment of debt (a) 10 26 acquisition costs (b) 8 10 litigation losses 5 4 loss attributable to non-controlling interests (1 ) adjusted ffo $ 649 $ 491 adjustments for dilutive securities (c): assuming conversion of exchangeable senior debentures $ 30 $ 13 assuming deduction of interest redeemed/exchanged 2004 debentures 2 diluted nareit ffo $ 658 $ 465 diluted adjusted ffo $ 681 $ 504 diluted weighted average shares outstanding-eps 693.0 656.1 assuming issuance of common shares granted under the comprehensive stock plan 2.0 2.9 assuming conversion of exchangeable senior debentures 39.8 21.2 weighted average outstanding shares redeemed/exchanged 2004 debentures 4.7 diluted weighted average shares outstanding nareit ffo and adjusted ffo 739.5 680.2 nareit ffo per diluted share $ .89 $ .68 adjusted ffo per diluted share (d) $ .92 $ .74 (a) represents costs associated with the redemption of the series k senior notes and 2007 debentures in 2011 and the series m senior notes in 2010 and the original issuance costs of class e preferred stock, which stock was redeemed on june 18, 2010. (b) includes approximately $3 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 related to our share of acquisition costs incurred by unconsolidated joint ventures. (c) earnings/loss per diluted share and ffo per diluted share in accordance with nareit are adjusted for the effects of dilutive securities. dilutive securities may include host inc. shares granted under host inc. comprehensive stock plans, preferred op units held by non-controlling partners, exchangeable debt securities and other non-controlling interests that have the option to convert their limited partnership interests to common op units. no effect is shown for securities if they are anti-dilutive. (d) adjusted ffo per diluted share for the quarter and year ended december 31, 2011 was reduced by $.02 per diluted share due to the $15 million deposit forfeited as a result of the terminated grand hyatt washington, d.c. acquisition. 86 table of contents comparable hotel operating results. we present certain operating results for our hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses, and adjusted operating profit, on a comparable hotel, or same store, basis as supplemental information for investors of both host inc. and host l.p. we present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate-level costs, including expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. we eliminate corporate-level costs and expenses because we believe property-level results provide investors with more specific insight into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels. we eliminate depreciation and amortization because, even though depreciation and amortization are property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. as noted earlier, because real estate values historically have risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. as a result of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses or operating profit and these comparable hotel operating results should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance. we present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period-to-period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel reits and hotel owners. in particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increases or decreases in revenues and/or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. while management believes that presentation of comparable hotel results is a same store supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or assess the operating performance of these hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable portfolio hotel results. for these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of gaap operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management. 87 table of contents the following table presents certain operating results and statistics for our comparable hotels for the periods presented herein: comparable hotel results for host inc. and host l.p. (in millions, except hotel statistics) (a) year ended december 31, 2011 2010 number of hotels 104 104 number of rooms 57,203 57,203 percent change in comparable hotel revpar 6.1 % operating profit margin under gaap (b) 6.5 % 5.0 % comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margin (b) 22.3 % 21.4 % comparable hotel revenues room $ 2,709 $ 2,552 food and beverage 1,334 1,265 other 272 270 comparable hotel revenues (c) 4,315 4,087 comparable hotel expenses room 745 705 food and beverage 988 943 other 157 154 management fees, ground rent and other costs 1,464 1,410 comparable hotel expenses (d) 3,354 3,212 comparable hotel adjusted operating profit 961 875 non-comparable hotel results, net (e) 132 60 loss from hotels leased from hpt (f) (6 ) (13 ) depreciation and amortization (652 ) (591 ) corporate and other expenses (111 ) (108 ) operating profit $ 324 $ 223 (a) the reporting period for our comparable operating statistics for 2011 is from january 1, 2011 to december 30, 2011 and for 2010 is january 2, 2010 to december 31, 2010. see reporting periods for more information on our fiscal calendar. (b) operating profit margins are calculated by dividing the applicable operating profit by the related revenue amount. gaap margins are calculated using amounts presented in the consolidated statement of operations. comparable margins are calculated using amounts presented in the above table. (c) the reconciliation of total revenues per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel revenues is as follows: year ended december 31, 2011 2010 revenues per the consolidated statements of operations $ 4,998 $ 4,428 non-comparable hotel revenues (513 ) (222 ) hotel revenues for the property for which we record rental income, net 51 48 revenues for hotels leased from hpt (221 ) (167 ) comparable hotel revenues $ 4,315 $ 4,087 88 table of contents (d) the reconciliation of operating costs per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel expenses is as follows: year ended december 31, 2011 2010 operating costs and expenses per the consolidated statements of operations $ 4,674 $ 4,205 non-comparable hotel expenses (381 ) (162 ) hotel expenses for the property for which we record rental income 51 48 expense for hotels leased from hpt (227 ) (180 ) depreciation and amortization (652 ) (591 ) corporate and other expenses (111 ) (108 ) comparable hotel expenses $ 3,354 $ 3,212 (e) non-comparable hotel results, net, includes the following items: (i) the results of operations of our non-comparable hotels whose operations are included in our consolidated statements of operations as continuing operations, (ii) gains on insurance settlements, (iii) the results of our office buildings, and (iv) the difference between the number of days of operations reflected in the comparable hotel results and the number of days of operations reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. (f) represents income less expense for hotels leased from hpt. 89 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk all information in this section applies to host inc. and host l.p. interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevailing market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. we have no derivative financial instruments that are held for trading purposes. we use derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks. the interest payments on 90% of our debt are fixed in nature (this percentage does not include $300 million of mortgage debt for which we have swapped fixed interest payments for floating interest payments), which largely mitigates the effect of changes in interest rates on our cash interest payments. valuations for mortgage debt and the credit facility are determined based on expected future payments, discounted at risk-adjusted rates. the senior notes and the debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increase or decrease by 100 basis points, interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, our future earnings and cash flows by approximately $7 million in 2012. the table below presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates (in millions, except percentages): expected maturity date 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value liabilities debt: fixed rate (1) $ 378 $ 231 $ 1,135 $ 1,046 $ 797 $ 1,770 $ 5,357 $ 5,679 average interest rate 6.42 % 6.49 % 6.72 % 6.83 % 6.87 % 6.44 % variable rate (1) $ 3 $ 111 $ $ 117 $ 165 $ $ 396 $ 401 average interest rate (2) 5.70 % 5.22 % 5.00 % 5.07 % 6.76 % % total debt $ 5,753 $ 6,080 interest rate derivative fixed to variable-notional $ $ $ 300 $ $ $ fair value (asset)/liability $ (11 ) average pay rate (2) 3.37 % 3.37 % 3.37 % % % % average receive rate 5.531 % 5.531 % 5.531 % % % % variable to fixed-notional $ $ $ $ $ 124 $ fair value (asset)/liability $ 4 average pay rate 6.92 % 6.92 % 6.92 % 6.92 % 6.76 % % average receive rate (2) 6.15 % 6.15 % 6.15 % 6.15 % 6.76 % % (1) the amounts are net of unamortized discounts and premiums. (2) the interest rate for our floating rate payments is based on the rate in effect as of december 31, 2011. no adjustments are made for forecast changes in the rate. interest rate swap derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. we have designated our floating-to-fixed interest rate swap derivatives as cash flow hedges. the derivatives are valued based on the prevailing market yield curve on the date of measurement. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk when we calculate the fair value of the swaps. changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) on the accompanying balance sheets. the hedges were fully effective as of december 31, 2011. 90 table of contents in connection with the acquisition of the hilton melbourne south wharf on april 29, 2011, we assumed an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of a$80 million ($86 million) related to its mortgage debt. in november 2011, as part of the refinancing of this loan, we paid approximately $1 million to settle the original swap and entered into a new interest rate swap with a notional amount of a$61.5 million ($60 million) and a maturity date of november 23, 2016. the purpose of the interest rate swap is to hedge against changes in cash flows (interest payments) attributable to fluctuations in the reuters bbsy. as a result, we will pay an all-in rate of 6.7% on the notional amount of the swap. we designated the derivative as a cash flow hedge. as a result of the change in fair value of this swap, a $0.3 million loss was recorded to other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. as of december 31, 2011, we recorded a liability of $0.4 million related to the fair value of this swap. on february 18, 2011, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of nz$79 million ($60 million) related to the mortgage debt on the seven properties acquired in new zealand on february 18, 2011. we entered into the swap in order to hedge against changes in cash flows (interest payments) attributable to fluctuations in the 3-month nz$ bank bill rate. as a result, we will pay an all-in rate of 7.15% on the notional amount of the swap, which includes the 120 basis point spread over the nz$ bank bill rate plus an additional 120 basis point commitment fee. we have designated the derivative as a cash flow hedge. as a result of the change in fair value of this derivative, a $2.7 million loss was recorded to other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. as of december 31, 2011, we recorded a liability of $3.8 million related to the fair value of this swap. interest rate swap derivatives designated as fair value hedges. we have designated our fixed-to-floating interest rate swap derivatives as fair value hedges. we enter into these derivative instruments to hedge changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt that occur as a result of changes in market interest rates. the derivatives are valued based on the prevailing market yield curve on the date of measurement. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. the change in the fair value of the derivative is offset largely by the corresponding change in the fair value of the underlying debt due to change in the 3-month libor rate, which is recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the debt. any difference between the change in the fair value of the swap and the change in the fair value in the underlying debt, which was not significant for the periods presented, is considered the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship and is recorded in net income (loss). we have three interest rate swap agreements for an aggregate notional amount of $300 million related to the ritz-carlton, naples and newport beach marriott hotel &amp; spa mortgage loan in the amount of $300 million. as of december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010, we recorded assets of $10.9 million and $10.6 million, respectively, related to the fair value of the swaps. during 2011 and 2010, the fair value of the swaps increased $0.3 million and $11.6 million, respectively. as a result, we will pay a floating interest rate equal to the 3-month libor, plus a spread which ranges from 2.7% to 3.2%, as opposed to the fixed rate of 5.531%, on the notional amount of $300 million through march 1, 2014. during each of 2011 and 2010, the cash settlement received under the swap agreement decreased interest expense by $6 million. if we were to increase the interest rates from the prevailing market yield curve, which for our reverse swaps is 3-month libor, by 25% at december 31, 2011, then the fair value of the swap would decrease $1 million. similarly, if we were to decrease the interest rates from the prevailing market yield curve by 25% at december 31, 2011, then the fair value of the swap would increase by $1 million. exchange rate sensitivity we have currency exchange risk as a result of our hotel ownership in australia, canada, chile, mexico, brazil, and new zealand and our investment in the european and asian joint ventures. to manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-u.s. hotels, where possible, we may enter into forward or option contracts. the foreign currency exchange agreements that we have entered into were strictly to hedge foreign currency risk and not for trading purposes. during 2011, 2010 and 2008, we entered into five foreign currency forward sale contracts totaling 100 million (approximately $140 million) in order to hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in the european joint venture. pursuant to these transactions, we will sell the euro amount and receive the u.s. dollar amount on the forward sale date. on july 29, 2011, we also entered into an nz$30 million ($25 million) forward purchase contract in order to hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in hhr new zealand holdings limited. we will sell the nz dollar amount and receive the u.s. dollar amount on august 2, 2013. these derivatives are considered a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation and are marked- 91 table of contents to-market with changes in fair value and recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within host inc. equity portion and host l.p. capital portion of their balance sheets. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. the following table summarizes our four foreign currency sale contracts (in millions): total transaction amount in foreign currency total transaction amount in dollars forward sale date range fair value at change in fair value for the period ended transaction date range december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 february 2008-july 2011 100 $ 140 october 2012- august 2015 $ 8.8 $ 6.9 $ 1.9 $ 5.2 july 2011 nz$ 30 $ 25 august 2013 $ 1.9 $ $ 1.9 $ 92 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. employees at certain of our third-party managed hotels are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are subject to review and renewal on a regular basis. for a discussion of these relationships, see part i item 1a. risk factors we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. where to find additional information the address of our principal executive office is 6903 rockledge drive, suite 1500, bethesda, maryland, 20817. our phone number is 240-744-1000. we maintain an internet website at: www.hosthotels.com. through our website, we make available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ). the public also may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at http://www.sec.gov . our website also is a key source of important information about us. we routinely post to the investor relations section of our website important information about our business, our operating results and our financial condition and prospects, including, for example, information about material acquisitions and dispositions, our earnings releases and certain supplemental financial information related or complimentary thereto. the website also has a governance page in the investor relations section that includes, among other things, copies of our by-laws, our code of business conduct and ethics and conflicts of interest policy for our directors, our code of business conduct and ethics policy for employees, our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for each standing committee of host inc. board of directors, which currently are the audit committee, the compensation policy committee and the nominating and corporate governance committee. copies of these charters and policies, host inc. by-laws and host l.p. partnership agreement also are available in print to stockholders and unitholders upon request to host hotels &amp; resorts, inc., 6903 rockledge drive, suite 1500, bethesda, maryland 20817, attn: secretary. please note that the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, any document, unless expressly incorporated by reference therein. item 1a. risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 16 table of contents financial risks and risks of operation our revenues and the value of our properties are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. the lodging industry is subject to changes in the travel patterns of business and leisure travelers, both of which are affected by the strength of the economy, as well as other factors. changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results. during the recession in 2008 and 2009, overall travel was reduced, which had a significant effect on our results of operations. while operating results have improved since then, uncertainty in the strength and direction of the recovery and continued high unemployment have slowed the pace of the overall economic recovery. therefore, there can be no assurance that any increases in hotel revenues or earnings at our properties will continue for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, slower than anticipated growth in the economy. our results of operations and any forecast we make, may be affected by, and can change based on, a variety of circumstances that affect the lodging industry, including: changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate; changes in business and leisure travel patterns; the effect of terrorist attacks and terror alerts in the united states and internationally, as well as other geopolitical disturbances; supply growth in markets where we own hotels, which may adversely affect demand at our properties; the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to competing hotels; the performance of the managers of our hotels; outbreaks of disease and the impact on travel of natural disasters and weather; physical damage to our hotels as a result of earthquakes, hurricanes, or other natural disasters, or the income lost as a result of the damage; changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and unionization of the labor force at our hotels. a reduction in our revenue or earnings as a result of the above risks may reduce our working capital, impact our long-term business strategy, and impact the value of our assets and our ability to meet certain covenants in our existing debt agreements. in addition, the continuing debate in congress regarding the national debt ceiling, federal budget deficit concerns, and overall weakness in the economy resulted in actual and threatened downgrades of u.s. government securities by the various major credit ratings agencies, including standard &amp; poor and fitch ratings. all of these factors have created uncertainty in u.s. and global financial markets, which factors could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions in the united states and throughout the world. this in turn could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect lodging demand and therefore our business and financial condition. because of the unprecedented nature of these events, including the negative credit rating actions with respect to u.s. government securities, the ultimate impact on global markets and our business, financial condition and liquidity are unpredictable and may not be immediately apparent. also, in 2012 standard &amp; poor lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on france, italy and seven other european countries, which has impacted negatively global markets and economic conditions. the continued uncertainty over the outcome of the governments and other european union ( eu ) member states financial support programs and the possibility that other eu member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets and economic growth in these countries. we have properties in several eu member states , held through our european joint venture, that have experienced difficulties servicing their sovereign debt, including italy and spain, and the results of operations at those hotels also could be affected adversely by any adverse economic conditions in these countries. 17 table of contents disruptions in the financial markets may affect adversely our business and results of operations, our ability to obtain financing on reasonable and acceptable terms, and our ability to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. the united states and global equity and credit markets have at times experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions since 2008, all of which caused market prices of the stock of many companies to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective and outstanding debt financings to widen considerably. these circumstances impacted liquidity in the financial markets, which made terms for financings less attractive, and, in some cases, resulted in the lack of availability of certain types of financing. continued uncertainty in the equity and credit markets may impact negatively our ability to access additional short-term and long-term financing on reasonable terms or at all, which would impact negatively our liquidity and financial condition. a prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may impact negatively our ability to enter into derivative contracts in order to hedge risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. disruptions in the financial markets also may adversely affect our credit rating. while we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity with which to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our operating results weaken significantly and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could affect materially and adversely our results of operations and financial condition. economic conditions may affect adversely the value of our hotels which may result in impairment charges on our properties. we analyze our assets for impairment in several situations, including when a property has current or projected losses from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when other material trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred, such that an asset carrying value may not be recoverable. for impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property carrying value over its fair value. we may incur additional impairment charges in the future, which charges will affect negatively our results of operations. we can provide no assurance that any impairment loss recognized would not be material to our results of operations. for information on impairment charges taken in 2011 and 2012, see part ii item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies. we depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. unlike regular c corporations, host inc. must finance its growth and fund debt repayments largely with external sources of capital because it is required to distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain) in order to qualify as a reit, including taxable income recognized for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which it does not receive cash. funds used by host inc. to make required distributions are provided through distributions from host l.p. our ability to access external capital could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including credit market conditions as discussed above, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, or decreases in the market price of the common stock of host inc. our ability to access additional capital also may be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness which, under certain circumstances, restrict our incurrence of debt and the payment of dividends and host l.p. distributions. the occurrence of any of these factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future growth. we have substantial debt and may incur additional debt. as of december 31, 2012, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $5.4 billion. our substantial indebtedness requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, dividends and distributions and other general corporate needs. additionally, our substantial indebtedness could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; 18 table of contents limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our debt or to obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate needs on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all; or affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. if our cash flow and working capital are not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we will have to raise additional funds through: sales of host l.p. op units or host inc. common stock; the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by host l.p.; or the sale of our assets. we cannot make any assurances that any of these sources of funds will be available to us or, if available, will be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient to meet our obligations or fulfill our business plan. under certain circumstances, we would be required to use the cash from some of the events described above to repay other indebtedness. the terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and these restrictions reduce our operational flexibility and create default risks. the documents governing the terms of our existing senior notes and our credit facility contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. these covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to: conduct acquisitions, mergers or consolidations, unless the successor entity in such transaction assumes our indebtedness; incur additional debt in excess of certain thresholds and without satisfying certain financial metrics; create liens securing indebtedness, unless an effective provision is made to secure our other indebtedness by such liens; sell assets without using the proceeds from such sales for certain permitted uses or to make an offer to repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness; make distributions without satisfying certain financial metrics; and conduct transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis and, in certain instances, without obtaining opinions as to the fairness of such transactions. certain of these covenants under our senior notes, including restrictions on incurring debt and making distributions, are no longer in effect while our senior notes maintain their current investment grade rating. however, we are still subject to similar covenants under the terms of our credit facility. in addition, certain covenants in our credit facility also require us and our subsidiaries to meet financial performance tests. the restrictive covenants in the applicable indenture(s), the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. in addition, certain of our mortgage debt requires that, to the extent cash flow from the hotels which secure such debt drops below stated levels, we escrow cash flow after the payment of debt service until operations improve above the stated levels. in some cases, the lender may apply the escrowed amount to the outstanding balance of the mortgage debt. if such provisions are triggered, the amounts required to be escrowed may affect negatively our liquidity by 19 table of contents limiting our access to cash flow after debt service from these mortgaged properties. for a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness, see part ii item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial condition. our ability to pay dividends and to make distributions may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness or preferred units. we are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on classes and series of host inc. capital stock and host l.p. payment of distributions on its classes of units. under the terms of host l.p. credit facility, distributions to host l.p. unitholders, including host inc., upon which host inc. depends in order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, are permitted only to the extent that host l.p. can satisfy certain financial covenant tests (concerning leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest coverage) and meet other requirements. we will also be subject to similar restrictions under the terms of our senior notes if our senior notes are no longer rated investment grade. we are permitted under our credit facility and senior notes indenture to make distributions of estimated taxable income that are necessary to maintain host inc. reit status. under the terms of host l.p. outstanding preferred op units, we are not permitted to make distributions on our common op units unless all cumulative distributions have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for payment) on our preferred op units. in the event that we fail to pay the accrued distributions on our preferred op units for any reason, including any restriction on making such distributions under the terms of our debt instruments (as discussed above), distributions will continue to accrue on such preferred op units and we will be prohibited from making any distributions on our common op units until all such accrued but unpaid distributions on our preferred op units have been paid (or funds for such payment have been set aside). an increase in interest rates would increase the interest costs on our credit facility and on our floating rate debt and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. interest payments for borrowings on our credit facility, the mortgages on nine properties and the fixed-to- floating interest rate swaps linked to two other properties are based on floating rates. as a result, an increase in interest rates will reduce our cash flow available for other corporate purposes, including investments in our portfolio. further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures and increase interest costs on any debt that is refinanced. we may from time to time enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts. currently, all of the mortgages with floating rates, which are secured by nine of our hotel properties, are fully or partially hedged through the use of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps or interest rate caps and floors. while these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. in addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of assets as part of our business strategy. rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. our senior notes are rated by moody investors service, standard &amp; poor ratings services and fitch ratings. these independent rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes at any time. such downgrades may affect negatively our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. our expenses may not decrease if our revenue decreases. many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt-service payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the hotels. our expenses also will be affected by inflationary increases, and certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. in the event of a significant decrease in demand, our hotel managers may not be able to reduce the size of hotel work forces in order to decrease wages and benefits. our managers also may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. any of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures also could adversely affect the future growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties. 20 table of contents our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. as part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire primarily luxury and upper upscale hotel properties. we may acquire properties through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other reits or similar real estate entities. we anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from host inc. equity offerings, issuance of limited partnership interests of host l.p., advances under our credit facility, the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness and proceeds from the sales of assets. continued disruptions in credit markets may limit our ability to finance acquisitions and may limit the ability of purchasers to finance hotels and affect adversely our disposition strategy and our ability to use disposition proceeds to finance acquisitions. we may, from time to time, be in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions. we cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from such acquisitions. our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our forfeiture of deposits in connection with our failure to consummate an acquisition or our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities in connection with completed acquisitions. we may not achieve the value we anticipate from new hotel developments or value enhancement projects at our existing hotels. we currently are, and in the future may be, involved in the development of hotel properties, timeshare units or other alternate uses of portions of our existing properties, including the development of retail, office or apartments, including through joint ventures. there are risks inherent in any new development, including: we may not obtain the zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations necessary to complete the development. a delay in receiving these approvals could affect the returns we expect to receive. any new construction involves the possibility of construction delays and cost overruns that may increase project costs. defects in design or construction may result in delays and additional costs to remedy the defect or require a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the defect. we may not be able to meet the loan covenants in any financing obtained to fund the new development, creating default risks. the development of timeshare units could become less attractive due to decreases in demand for residential, fractional or interval ownership, increases in mortgage rates and/or decreases in mortgage availability, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell the timeshares for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate. in addition, to the extent that developments are conducted through joint ventures that involve shared control, this creates additional risks, including the possibility that our partners may not meet their financial obligations or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. see we may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. any of the above factors could affect adversely our and our partners ability to complete the developments on schedule and along the scope that currently is contemplated, or to achieve the intended value of these projects. for these reasons, there can be no assurances as to the value to be realized by the company from these transactions or any future similar transactions. 21 table of contents we do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. we have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. the cash flow from our hotels may be affected adversely if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. while we monitor the hotel managers performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. in addition, from time to time, we have had, and continue to have, differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. we generally resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. however, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could affect adversely our results of operations. our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in, or provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, all of which may result in conflicts of interest. as a result, our hotel managers have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interest. we are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our consolidated hotels (other than employing, but not managing, the associates at our new zealand and australian properties), we still are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. from time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. we also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes involving our third-party managers and their labor force or other events. the resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, a significant component of our costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. we do not have the ability to affect the outcome of these negotiations. our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and potentially significant capital expenditures in order to remain competitive in the marketplace, maintain brand standards or to comply with applicable laws or regulations. the timing and costs of such renovations or improvements may result in reduced operating performance during construction and may not improve the return on these investments. we are required by our loan agreements or agreements with our hotel managers to make agreed upon capital expenditures. in addition, we will need to make further capital expenditures in order to remain competitive with other hotels, to maintain the economic value of our hotels and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. the timing of these improvements can affect hotel performance, particularly if the improvements require closure of a significant number of rooms or other features of the hotels, such as ballrooms, meeting space and restaurants. these capital improvements reduce the availability of cash for other purposes and are subject to cost overruns and delays. in addition, because we depend on external sources of capital, we may not have the necessary funds to invest and, if we fail to maintain our properties in accordance with brand standards set by our managers, the manager may terminate the management agreement. moreover, we may not necessarily realize a significant, or any, improvement in the performance of the hotels in which we make these investments. the ownership of hotels outside the united states and the expansion of our business into new markets outside of the united states will expose us to risks relating to owning hotels in those international markets. part of our business strategy is to expand our presence outside of the united states. as of december 31, 2012, we own directly 15 hotels located outside of the united states. we also are party to a joint venture that owns 19 hotels in europe and to a joint venture that owns one hotel in australia and a non-controlling interest in two hotels 22 table of contents currently open and five hotels in development in india. we may have difficulty managing our expansion into new geographic markets where we have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area, or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures and regulations. there are risks inherent in conducting business outside of the united states, which include: employment laws and practices; tax laws, which may provide for income or other taxes or tax rates that exceed those of the u.s. and which may provide that foreign earnings that are repatriated, directly or indirectly, are subject to dividend withholding tax requirements or other restrictions; compliance with and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy; the willingness of domestic or international lenders to provide financing and changes in the availability, cost and terms of such financing; adverse changes in local, political, economic and market conditions; insurance coverage related to terrorist events; changes in interest rates and/or currency exchange rates; regulations regarding the incurrence of debt; and difficulties in complying with u.s. rules governing reits while operating outside of the united states. any of these factors could affect adversely our ability to obtain all of the intended benefits of our international country expansion. if we do not effectively manage this expansion and successfully integrate the international hotels into our organization, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. we may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. we have made investments in joint ventures in europe and asia and are exploring further investment opportunities in asia, europe and latin america. we may, from time to time, invest as a co-venturer in other entities holding hotel properties instead of purchasing hotel properties directly. investments in joint ventures may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. co-venturers often share control over the operation of a joint venture. actions by a co-venturer also could subject the assets to additional risks as a result of any of the following circumstances: our co-venturer might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint venture s, interests or goals; or our co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives. although generally we will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture in order to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers from focusing their time and effort on our business. our management agreements could affect the sale or financing of our hotels. under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer our hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets specified other conditions. our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager consent. if the manager does not consent to such sale or financing, we may be precluded from taking actions in our best interest. 23 table of contents we may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. we obtain terrorism insurance as part of our all-risk property insurance program, as well as our general liability and directors and officers coverage. however, our all-risk policies have limitations, such as per occurrence limits, annual aggregate coverage limits and sublimits, all of which might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. also, all-risk insurers only are required to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act ( tripra ). property damage related to war and to nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. while tripra will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical perils, tripra does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. we have a wholly-owned captive insurance company through which we obtain a policy for nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological ( nbcr ) coverage. this captive insurer has the same ability as other insurance companies to apply to the u.s. treasury for reimbursement, as provided for in tripra, and is subject to the same deductibles and co-insurance obligations. this potential reimbursement applies to property insurance only, and not to general liability or directors and officers insurance, and there are no assurances that we will be able to recover any or all of our nbcr losses under this program. some potential losses are not covered by insurance. we, or our hotel managers, carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. these policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar types of properties. generally, our all-risk property policies provide coverage that is available on a per-occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, has an overall limit, as well as various sub-limits, on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. sub-limits exist for certain types of claims, such as service interruption, debris removal, expediting costs, landscaping replacement and natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes, and may be subject to annual aggregate coverage limits. the dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. in this regard, hotels in certain of our markets, including california, florida and new zealand, have in the past been and continue to be particularly susceptible to damage from natural disasters. recovery under the applicable policies also is subject to substantial deductibles and complex calculations of lost business income. there is no assurance that this insurance, where maintained, will fully fund the re-building or restoration of a hotel that is impacted by an earthquake, hurricane, or other natural disaster, or the income lost as a result of the damage. our property policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case where the manager of one of our hotels provides this coverage, any such claims will be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the manager program for the same purpose. therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, or, in the case of hotels where coverage is provided by the manager, affects hotels owned by others, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached. each affected hotel only may receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. we may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive complete coverage for risks that affect multiple properties, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, or certain types of terrorism. in addition, there are other risks, such as certain environmental hazards, that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify coverage. we also may encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur, or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all or a part of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. in that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. 24 table of contents litigation judgments or settlements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. we have accrued a potential litigation loss of approximately $58 million in connection with a lawsuit in the 166 th judicial district court of bexar county, texas involving the sale of land encumbered by a ground lease for the san antonio marriott rivercenter. see part i item 3. legal proceedings for more information on the verdict and the status of the appeal. we also are involved in various other legal proceedings in the normal course of business and are vigorously defending these claims; however, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of any pending legal proceedings. we believe, based on currently available information, that the results of such proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but might be material to our operating results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the operating results for such period. we also could become the subject of future claims by the operators of our hotels, individuals or companies who use our hotels, our investors, our joint venture partners or regulating entities and these claims could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. we may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to hotels or businesses we acquire. assets and entities that we have acquired, or may in the future acquire, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. in general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements may not survive long enough for us to become aware of such liabilities and seek recourse against our sellers. while usually we require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification often is limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. as a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with acquired hotels and entities may exceed our expectations, plus we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may affect adversely our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. finally, indemnification agreements between us and the sellers typically provide that the sellers will retain certain specified liabilities relating to the assets and entities acquired by us. while the sellers generally are contractually obligated to pay all losses and other expenses relating to such retained liabilities without regard to survival limitations, materiality thresholds, deductibles or caps on losses, there can be no guarantee that such arrangements will not require us to incur losses or other expenses in addition to those incurred by the sellers. we depend on our key personnel. our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. none of our key personnel have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. we cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. while we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. exchange rate fluctuations could affect adversely our financial results. as a result of the expansion of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the euro, the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the australian dollar, the new zealand dollar, the british pound sterling, the polish zloty, the brazilian real and the chilean peso. in 2012, revenues in these currencies represented approximately 5% of our total revenues. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and other foreign currencies, these transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. to the extent that we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with expenses paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in u.s. dollars, if we generate revenues or earnings in other currencies, the conversion of such amounts into u.s. dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of our revenues or earnings. 25 table of contents applicable reit laws may restrict certain business activities. as a reit, host inc. is subject to various restrictions on the types of income it can earn, assets it can own and activities in which it can engage. business activities that could be impacted by applicable reit laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units. due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will conduct certain business activities, including those mentioned above, in one or more of our taxable reit subsidiaries. our taxable reit subsidiaries are taxable as regular c corporations and are subject to federal, state, local, and, if applicable, foreign taxation on their taxable income. we may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are inherently illiquid. real estate properties generally cannot be sold quickly and, accordingly, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. the inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could affect adversely our financial condition and the ability to service our debt. in addition, under the federal income tax laws applicable to reits, we may be limited in our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive on the hotels located on the leased properties. as of december 31, 2012, 38 of our hotels are subject to third-party ground leases (encumbering all or a portion of the hotel). these ground leases generally require periodic increases in ground rent payments, which are often based on economic indicators such as the consumer price index. our ability to pay ground rent could be affected adversely to the extent that our hotel revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. in addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would be required to assume the ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. we believe that our properties comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws. unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and remediate hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. the owner or operator may be required to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, and for investigation and remediation costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of toxic or hazardous substances. these laws require that owners or operators of buildings properly manage and maintain these substances and notify and train those who may come into contact with them and undertake special precautions. these laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to toxic or hazardous materials. compliance with other government regulations can be costly. our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including title iii of the americans with disabilities act ( ada ), building codes and regulations pertaining to fire and life safety. under the ada, all 26 table of contents public accommodations are required to meet certain federal rules related to access and use by disabled persons. these laws and regulations may be changed from time-to-time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. for example, the ada was revised substantially in september 2010 and our facilities were required to comply with the new regulations by march 15, 2012. a determination that we are not in compliance with the ada could result in a court order to bring the hotel into compliance, imposition of fines or an award of attorneys fees to private litigants. compliance with the ada and other laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, the operations of our international properties are subject to a variety of united states and international laws and regulations, including the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ). we have policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws, but we cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international properties might be subject and the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. risks of ownership of host inc. common stock there are limitations on the acquisition of host inc. common stock and changes in control. host inc. charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of host l.p., and the maryland general corporation law (the mgcl ) contain a number of provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for host inc. stockholders or host l.p. unitholders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: restrictions on transfer and ownership of host inc. stock. to maintain host inc. qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of host inc. outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned in the last half of the taxable year, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, which, as defined in the code, may include certain entities. in addition, if host inc., or one or more owners of 10% or more of host inc., actually or constructively owns 10% or more of a tenant of host inc. or a tenant of any partnership in which host inc. is a partner, the rent received by host inc. either directly or through any such partnership from such tenant generally will not be qualifying income for purposes of the reit income qualification tests of the code, and therefore could jeopardize host inc. qualification as a reit, unless the tenant qualifies as a trs and certain other requirements are met. accordingly, host inc. charter prohibits ownership, directly or by attribution, by any person or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of shares of host inc. outstanding common stock, preferred stock or any other class or series of stock, each considered as a separate class or series for this purpose. together, these limitations are referred to as the ownership limit. stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the intended acquirer of the stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares of stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the stock or the amount realized from the sale. a transfer of shares of host inc. stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of host inc. stock in excess of the ownership limit. these restrictions will not apply if host inc. board of directors determines that it is no longer in host inc. best interests to continue to qualify as a reit or that compliance with the restrictions on transfer and ownership is no longer required for host inc. to qualify as a reit. removal of board of directors. host inc. charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of all 27 table of contents the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. vacancies on host inc. board of directors may be filled, at any regular meeting or at any special meeting called for that purpose, by the affirmative vote of the remaining directors, except that a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority vote of the entire board of directors. any vacancy resulting from the removal of a director by the stockholders may be filled by the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. host inc. charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that host inc. has authority to issue is 1,100,000,000, consisting of 1,050,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. host inc. board of directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock into other classes or series of stock, and to establish the terms, preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption for each class or series. because host inc. board of directors has this power, it may give the holders of any class or series of stock terms, preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock. certain provisions of maryland law may limit the ability of a third-party to acquire control of host inc. certain provisions of the mgcl may have the effect of inhibiting a third-party from acquiring host inc., including: business combination provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between a corporation and an interested stockholder (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation then outstanding shares of voting stock or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations: and control share provisions that provide that holders of control shares of a corporation (defined as voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned or controlled by the acquirer, would entitle the acquirer to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a control share acquisition (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of issued and outstanding control shares ) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. host inc. is subject to the maryland business combination statute. our bylaws contain a provision exempting us from the control share provisions of the mgcl. there can be no assurance that this bylaw provision exempting us from the control share provisions will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. additionally, title 3, subtitle 8 of the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what currently is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, such as a classified board, some of which we do not have. merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of host inc. assets. under maryland law and host inc. charter, subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer host inc. assets within the meaning of the mgcl if approved (1) by host inc. board of directors in the manner provided in the mgcl, and (2) by host inc. stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger of host inc. with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing host inc. form of organization from a corporation to a trust 28 table of contents requires only the approval of host inc. stockholders holding a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the merger. under the mgcl, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange only is required to be approved by the board of directors of a maryland corporation if the corporation is the successor entity. host inc. voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. certain charter and bylaw amendments. host inc. charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transfer and ownership of host inc. stock, fixing the size of the board of directors within the range set forth in the charter, removal of directors, the filling of vacancies, exculpation and indemnification of directors, calling special stockholder meetings and others, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by host inc. stockholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. other charter amendments generally require approval of the board and the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. as permitted under the mgcl, host inc. charter and bylaws provide that the board of directors has the exclusive right to amend host inc. bylaws. these provisions may make it more difficult to amend host inc. charter and bylaws to alter the provisions described herein that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control or the acquisition of host inc. common stock, without the approval of the board of directors. shares of host inc. common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price of host inc. common stock. we may issue additional shares of common stock to raise the capital necessary to finance hotel acquisitions, fund capital expenditures, refinance debt or for other corporate purposes. sales of a substantial number of shares of host inc. common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could affect adversely prevailing market prices for host inc. common stock. in addition, holders of op units who redeem their units and receive, at host inc. election, shares of host inc. common stock will be able to sell those shares freely. as of december 31, 2012, there are approximately 9.9 million op units outstanding owned by third parties that are redeemable, which represents approximately 1.4% of all outstanding units. further, a substantial number of shares of host inc. common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans. we maintain two stock-based compensation plans: (i) the comprehensive stock plan, whereby we may award to participating employees and directors restricted shares of common stock, options to purchase common stock and deferred shares of common stock, and (ii) an employee stock purchase plan. at december 31, 2012, there were approximately 19 million shares of host inc. common stock reserved and available for issuance under the comprehensive stock plan and employee stock purchase plan and 1.0 million outstanding options exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of $9.86 per share. also as of december 31, 2012, host l.p. had outstanding $575 million principal amount of exchangeable senior debentures that could become exchangeable, under certain conditions, for shares of host inc. common stock. although the exchange conditions currently have not been satisfied, these debentures would be exchangeable for approximately 41 million shares based on the current exchange prices. for $400 million of such exchangeable debentures, however, host inc. has the option to issue cash, shares of host inc. common stock or any combination thereof in settlement of the debentures, should they be presented for exchange. on april 24, 2012, host inc. entered into two sales financing agreements, one with each of bny mellon capital markets, llc and scotia capital (usa) inc., through which host inc. may issue and sell, from time to time, shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $400 million. the sales will be made in at the market offerings under sec rules, including sales made directly on the new york stock exchange. each of bny mellon capital markets, llc and scotia capital (usa) inc. is acting as sales agent. host inc. may sell shares of common stock under its program, from time to time, based on market conditions, although it is not under an obligation to sell any shares. as of december 31, 2012, approximately $100 million of host inc. common stock have been issued and sold pursuant to the program. shares of host inc. common stock, having an aggregate offering price of approximately $300 million, remain issuable from time to time under the agreements. any additional shares of common stock issued by host inc., whether issued under this program or otherwise, would be available in the future for sale in the public markets. 29 table of contents our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of host inc. common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit equity securities is based primarily upon the market perception of the reit growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and secondarily is based upon the value of the underlying assets. for that reason, shares of host inc. common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent that we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may impact negatively the market price of host inc. common stock. our failure to meet the market expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions likely would affect adversely the market price of host inc. common stock. market interest rates may affect the price of shares of host inc. common stock. we believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a reit is the dividend rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of reit shares may expect a higher dividend rate. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of host inc. common stock to decrease. federal income tax risks to qualify as a reit, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits are required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain, regardless of available cash or outstanding obligations. to continue to qualify as a reit, host inc. is required to distribute to its stockholders with respect to each year at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain. to the extent that host inc. satisfies this distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income and net capital gain for the taxable year, it will be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on its undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. in addition, host inc. will be subject to a nondeductible 4% excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by host inc. with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of (1) 85% of its ordinary income, (2) 95% of its net capital gain, and (3) any undistributed taxable income from prior years, less excess distributions from prior years. host inc. intends to make distributions, subject to the availability of cash and in compliance with any debt covenants, to its stockholders in order to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid the imposition of a significant nondeductible 4% excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from host l.p. and its subsidiaries. there are differences in timing between host inc. recognition of taxable income and its receipt of cash available for distribution due to, among other things, the seasonality of the lodging industry and the fact that some taxable income will be phantom taxable income, which is taxable income that is not matched by cash flow. due to transactions entered into in years prior to host inc. conversion to a reit, host inc. could recognize substantial amounts of phantom taxable income in the future. it is possible that any differences between the recognition of taxable income and the receipt of the related cash could require us to borrow funds or for host inc. to issue additional equity in order to enable host inc. to meet its distribution requirements and, therefore, to maintain its reit status and to avoid the nondeductible 4% excise tax. in addition, because the reit distribution requirements prevent host inc. from retaining earnings, generally we will be required to refinance debt at its maturity with additional debt or equity. it is possible that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would not be sufficient to meet host inc. distribution and tax obligations. host l.p. owns 100% of the outstanding common stock and a portion of the outstanding preferred stock of two entities that have elected to be treated as reits. each of these subsidiary reits are subject to the same requirements that host inc. must satisfy in order to qualify as a reit, including the distribution requirements described above. adverse tax consequences would occur if host inc. or any of its subsidiary reits fail to qualify as a reit. we believe that host inc. has been organized and has operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a reit under the code, commencing with its taxable year beginning january 1, 1999, and host inc. currently intends to 30 table of contents continue to operate as a reit during future years. in addition, host inc. owns, through host l.p., two entities that have elected to be treated as reits. as the requirements for qualification and taxation as a reit are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a reit are limited, no assurance can be provided that host inc. currently qualifies as a reit or will continue to qualify as a reit or that each of host inc. subsidiary reits qualify as a reit. if any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that host inc. would fail to qualify as a reit unless it (or the subsidiary reit) could avail itself of certain relief provisions. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change significantly the tax laws with respect to an entity qualification as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of its reit qualification. if host inc. or any of the subsidiary reits were to fail to qualify as a reit, and any available relief provisions did not apply, the non-qualifying reit would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. moreover, unless entitled to statutory relief, the non-qualifying reit would not qualify as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which reit qualification was lost. any determination that host inc. or one of its subsidiary reits does not qualify as a reit will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could materially reduce the value of host inc. common stock. the additional tax liability of host inc. or the subsidiary reit for the year, or years, in which the relevant entity did not qualify as a reit would reduce its net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to stockholders. furthermore, the non-qualifying entity no longer would be required to make distributions to stockholders as a condition to reit qualification and all of its distributions to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary c corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. this means that, if host inc. were to fail to qualify as a reit, host inc. stockholders currently taxed as individuals would be taxed on those dividends at capital gain rates and host inc. corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case to applicable limitations under the code. host inc. failure to qualify as a reit also would cause an event of default under host l.p. credit facility, which default could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due thereunder, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under host l.p. outstanding debt securities. if our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. to qualify as a reit, host inc. must satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of its gross income must be passive income, such as rent. for the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our trs, which rental income currently constitutes substantially all of host inc. and each of our subsidiary reits gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, our leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. we believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the internal revenue service ( irs ) will agree with this characterization. if the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, neither host inc. nor either of our subsidiary reits would be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to reits and each likely would lose its reit status. if our affiliated lessees fail to qualify as taxable reit subsidiaries, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits would fail to qualify as a reit. rent paid by a lessee that is a related party tenant of host inc. will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to reits. we lease substantially all of our hotels to our subsidiary that is taxable as a regular c corporation and that has elected to be treated as a taxable reit subsidiary with respect to host inc. so long as any affiliated lessee qualifies as a taxable reit subsidiary, it will not be treated as a related party tenant. we believe that our affiliated lessees have qualified and will continue to qualify, and that the taxable reit subsidiaries of each of our subsidiary reits have qualified and will continue to qualify, to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs will not challenge the status of a taxable reit subsidiary for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in disqualifying any of our affiliated lessees (including the taxable reit subsidiaries of our subsidiary reits) from treatment as a taxable reit subsidiary, it is possible that 31 table of contents host inc. or a subsidiary reit would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to reits and substantially all of its income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. if host inc. or a subsidiary reit failed to meet either the asset tests or the gross income tests, each likely would lose its reit status. despite the reit status of each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits, we remain subject to various taxes. one of the subsidiary reits of host inc. will be required to pay federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate on built-in gain recognized as a result of the sale of one or more of its hotel assets prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period, including certain hotels acquired from starwood and its affiliates in 2006. the total amount of gain on which the subsidiary reit would be subject to corporate income tax if all of its built-in gain assets were sold in a taxable transaction prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period would be material to it. in addition, we expect that we could recognize other substantial deferred tax liabilities in the future without any corresponding receipt of cash. notwithstanding host inc. status as a reit, host inc. and our subsidiaries (including our subsidiary reits) are subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on their income and property. for example, host inc. and our subsidiary reits will pay tax on certain types of income that are not distributed and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable reit subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm length basis. moreover, the taxable reit subsidiaries of host inc. and our subsidiary reits are taxable as regular c corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent that they own assets or conduct operations in international jurisdictions. host l.p. is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by host inc. if the irs were to challenge successfully host l.p. status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, host inc. would cease to qualify as a reit and would suffer other adverse consequences. we believe that host l.p. qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. as a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. instead, each of its partners, including host inc., is required to report and pay tax, if applicable, on such partner allocable share of its income. no assurance can be provided, however, that the irs will not challenge host l.p. status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating host l.p. as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, host inc. would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to reits and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a reit. if host l.p. fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or host inc. fails to qualify as a reit, either failure would cause an event of default under host l.p. credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under host l.p. outstanding debt securities. also, the failure of host l.p. to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes would cause it to become subject to federal, state and foreign corporate income tax, which tax would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including host inc. as a reit, each of host inc. and its subsidiary reits is subject to limitations on its ownership of debt and equity securities. subject to certain exceptions, a reit generally is prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer to the extent that (1) the value of such securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets, (2) the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities, or (3) the reit owns more than 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. a reit is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. however, a reit may not own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 25% of the value of the reit total assets. if host inc. or any of its subsidiary reits were to violate these ownership limitations, each likely would lose its reit status. 32 table of contents each of host inc. or its subsidiary reits may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. the federal income tax provisions applicable to reits provide that any gain realized by a reit on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% excise tax. under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. we intend to hold our hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels consistent with our investment objectives. there can be no assurance, however, that the irs might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% excise tax. risks relating to redemption of op units a holder who offers its op units for redemption may have adverse tax consequences. a holder whose op units are redeemed will be treated for federal and state income tax purposes as having sold the op units. the sale of these units is a taxable event and the holder thereof will be treated as realizing an amount equal to the sum of (1) the value of the common stock or cash the holder receives, and (2) the amount of host l.p. nonrecourse liabilities allocated to the redeemed op units. the gain or loss recognized by the holder of op units is measured by the difference between the amount realized by the holder and the holder basis in the op units redeemed (which basis includes the amount of host l.p. nonrecourse liabilities allocated to the redeemed op units). it is possible that the amount of gain and/or the tax liability related thereto that the holder recognizes and pays could exceed the value of the common stock or cash that the holder receives. if a holder of op units elects to offer them for redemption, the original receipt of the op units may be subject to tax. if a holder of op units elects to have its units redeemed, particularly within two years of receiving them, there is a risk that the original receipt of the op units may be treated as a taxable sale under the disguised sale rules of the internal revenue code. subject to several exceptions, the tax law generally provides that a partner contribution of property to a partnership and a simultaneous or subsequent transfer of money or other consideration from the partnership to the partner will be presumed to be a taxable sale. in particular, if money or other consideration is transferred by a partnership to a partner within two years of the partner contribution of property, the transactions are presumed to be a taxable sale of the contributed property, unless the facts and circumstances clearly establish that the transfers are not a sale. on the other hand, if two years have passed between the original contribution of property and the transfer of money or other consideration, the transactions will not be presumed to be a taxable sale, unless the facts and circumstances clearly establish that they should be so treated. differences between an investment in shares of host inc. common stock and op units may affect redeemed holders of op units. if a holder of op units elects to have op units redeemed, we will determine whether the holder receives cash or shares of host inc. common stock in exchange for the op units. although an investment in shares of host inc. common stock is substantially similar to an investment in op units, there are some differences between ownership of op units and ownership of host inc. common stock. these differences include form of organization, management structure, voting rights, liquidity and federal income taxation, some of which may be material to investors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 91 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. asian joint venture. we have a 25% interest in the asia/pacific jv with reco hotels jv private limited, an affiliate of gic re. the initial term of the asia/pacific jv is for a period of seven years and is scheduled to expire in march of 2015. due to the ownership structure and the substantive participating rights of the non-host limited partner, including approval over financing, acquisitions and dispositions, and annual operating and capital expenditure budgets, the asia/pacific jv is not consolidated in our financial statements. the commitment period for equity contributions to the asia/pacific jv expired in march 2012. we did not extend the commitment period beyond the expiration date; however, as we continue to invest in asia, we may offer gic re opportunities to participate in certain acquisitions through the joint venture or a separate joint venture. as of december 31, 2012, the asia/pacific jv partners have invested approximately $65 million (of which our share was $16 million) in a joint venture in india with accor s.a. and interglobe enterprises limited, in which the asia/pacific jv holds a 36% interest. the joint venture in india is developing seven properties in india, totaling approximately 1,750 rooms, two of which opened in bangalore in 2012 and five of which are under various stages of development in chennai and delhi. the hotels will be managed by accor under the pullman, ibis and novotel brands. we have committed to invest an additional $5 million in this venture. on march 6, 2012, the asia/pacific jv acquired the 278-room citigate perth in australia for a$61 million ($64 million). the asia/pacific jv invested approximately a$17 million ($18 million) to upgrade and rebrand the hotel as a four points by sheraton. we have contributed a$10 million ($11 million) to the asia/pacific jv in connection with this acquisition. on august 10, 2012, the asia/pacific jv entered into a a$30.5 million ($32 million) mortgage loan with commonwealth bank of australia that is secured by the four points by sheraton. we received a portion of the proceeds of this loan as repayment of our loan made to acquire the hotel, which we used to repay a$8 million ($8 million) outstanding under the revolver portion of our credit facility. 74 table of contents maui joint venture. on november 9, 2012, we entered into a joint venture with hyatt residential group (the maui jv ) to develop, sell and operate a 131-unit vacation ownership project in maui, hawaii adjacent to our hyatt regency maui resort &amp; spa. we have a 67% ownership interest in the maui jv, which is a non-controlling interest as a result of the significant economic rights held by the hyatt member, who also is the managing member. the total estimated development costs are $200 million, which we expect will be funded with a $110 million construction loan and member contributions. we anticipate that host investment in the maui jv will be approximately $80 million. the joint venture has secured the $110 million construction loan which is jointly and severally guaranteed by both partners. as of december 31, 2012, we have contributed land valued at $36 million and approximately $8 million in pre-formation expenditures. as of december 31, 2012, the book value of our investment in the maui jv is $15 million, which represents our portion of the historical cost basis of the land plus the pre-formation expenditures. during 2012, we recognized a gain on the sale of the land to the maui jv of approximately $8 million. construction has begun and the project is expected to open in late 2014. hyatt place joint venture . in may 2012, we entered into a joint venture agreement, in which we are a 50% partner, with white lodging services to develop the 255-room hyatt place in downtown nashville, tennessee for approximately $46 million, including the purchase of the land. the joint venture has secured a $34.8 million construction loan for this project, but as of december 31, 2012 had not drawn on this facility. along with white lodging services, we have jointly and severally guaranteed the payment of the loan. we have invested approximately $5 million for our investment in the joint venture. due to the significant control rights of our partner, we will not consolidate the joint venture in our financial statements. tax sharing arrangements . under tax sharing agreements with former affiliated companies (such as marriott international, inc., hms host and barcel&oacute; crestline corporation), we are obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) relating to periods in which the companies were affiliated with us. for example, a taxing authority could adjust an item deducted by a former affiliate during the period that this former affiliate was owned by us. this adjustment could produce a tax liability that we may be obligated to pay under the tax sharing agreement. additionally, under the partnership agreement between host inc. and host l.p., host l.p. is obligated to pay certain taxes (federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) incurred by host inc., as well as any liabilities the irs may successfully assert against host inc. we do not expect any amounts paid under these tax sharing arrangements to be material. tax indemnification agreements. as a result of certain federal and state income tax considerations of the former owners of two hotels currently owned by host l.p., we have agreed to restrictions on selling such hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods. one of these agreements expires in 2028 and the other in 2031. guarantees . we have certain guarantees, which consist of commitments we have made to third parties for leases or debt, that are not recorded on our books due to various dispositions, spin-offs and contractual arrangements, but that we have agreed to pay in the event of certain circumstances, including default by an unrelated party. we consider the likelihood of any material payments under these guarantees to be remote. the largest guarantees (by dollar amount) are listed below: we remain contingently liable for rental payments on certain divested non-lodging properties. these primarily represent certain restaurants that were sold subject to our guarantee of the future rental payments. the aggregate amount of these future rental payments is approximately $21 million as of december 31, 2012. in 1997, we owned leisure park venture limited partnership, which currently owns and operates a senior living facility. we no longer have an ownership interest in the partnership, but remain obligated under a guarantee of interest and principal with respect to $14.7 million of municipal bonds issued by the new jersey economic development authority through their maturity in 2027. however, to the extent we are required to make any payments under the guarantee, we have been indemnified by barcel&oacute; crestline corporation, who, in turn, is indemnified by the current owner of the facility. 75 table of contents in connection with the sale of two hotels in january 2005, we remain contingently liable for the amounts due under the respective ground leases. the future minimum lease payments are approximately $12 million through the full term of the leases, including renewal options. we believe that the likelihood of any liability arising related to these ground leases is remote and, in each case, we have been indemnified by the purchaser of the hotel. in connection with the sale of the atlanta marriott marquis in january 2013, we retained $5 million of contingent liabilities related to potential environmental liabilities. information on other guarantees and other off-balance sheet arrangements may be found in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements entitled guarantees and contingencies. contractual obligations. the table below summarizes our obligations for principal and estimated interest payments on our debt, future minimum lease payments on our operating and capital leases, projected capital expenditures and other long-term liabilities, each as of december 31, 2012 (in millions): payments due by period total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years more than 5 years long-term debt obligations (1) $ 6,720 $ 570 $ 1,829 $ 2,100 $ 2,221 capital lease obligations 1 1 operating lease obligations 1,667 46 87 84 1,450 purchase obligations (2) 427 389 38 other long-term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet (3) 17 3 14 total $ 8,832 $ 1,006 $ 1,957 $ 2,184 $ 3,685 (1) the amounts shown include amortization of principal, debt maturities and estimated interest payments. interest payments have been included in this category based on the weighted average interest rate. (2) our only purchase obligations consist of commitments for capital expenditures at our hotels. under our contracts, we have the ability to defer some of these expenditures into later years. (3) the amounts shown include deferred management fees and the estimated amount of tax expense. under terms of our management agreements, we have deferred payment of management fees to our hotel managers for some of our properties that have not achieved the required income thresholds for payment of owner priority to us. the timing of the payments, if any, is based on future operations, the termination of the management agreement or the sale of the hotel, and is, therefore, not determinable. the estimated amount of tax expense relates to uncertain tax liabilities from prior years. critical accounting policies our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with gaap, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. while we do not believe the reported amounts would be materially different, application of these policies involves the exercise of judgment and the use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to the impairment of long-lived assets, on an ongoing basis. we base our estimates on experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. all of our significant accounting policies are disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. the following represent certain critical accounting policies that require us to exercise our business judgment or make significant estimates. hotels acquired in a business combination . we record our investments in hotel properties based on the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at acquisition date. property and equipment are recorded at fair value and allocated to buildings, improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment using appraisals and valuations performed by management and independent third parties. fair values are based on the exit price (i.e. the price that would be received to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date). we evaluate several factors, including market data for similar assets, expected cash flows discounted at risk adjusted rates and replacement cost for the assets to determine an appropriate exit cost when evaluating the fair value of our assets. 76 table of contents other items that we evaluate in a business combination include identifiable intangible assets, capital lease assets and obligations and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets are typically assumed contracts, including ground and retail leases and management and franchise agreements, which are recorded at fair value. above-market and below-market contract values are based on the present value of the difference between contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the contracts acquired and our estimate of the fair value of contract rates for corresponding contracts measured over the period equal to the remaining non-cancelable term of the contract. intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining non-cancelable term of the related agreements. capital lease obligations that are assumed as part of the acquisition of a leasehold interest are measured at fair value and included as debt on the accompanying balance sheet and we record the corresponding right-to-use assets. classification of a lease does not change if it is part of a business combination. in making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, we may utilize a number of sources that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of a property and other market data, including third-party appraisals and valuations. in certain situations, a deferred tax liability may be created due to the difference between the fair value and the tax basis of the asset at the acquisition date. any consideration paid in excess of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired would be recorded to goodwill. in very limited circumstances, we may record a bargain purchase gain if the consideration paid is less than the net fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. furthermore, acquisition-related costs, such as due diligence, legal and accounting fees, are not capitalized or applied in determining the fair value of the acquired assets. impairment testing. we analyze our assets for impairment throughout the year when events or circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying values thereof may not be recoverable. we consider a property to be impaired when the sum of future undiscounted cash flows over our remaining estimated holding period is less than the carrying value of the asset. for impaired assets, we record an impairment charge equal to the excess of the property carrying value over its fair value. to the extent that a property has a substantial remaining estimated useful life and management does not believe that it is more likely than not the property will be disposed of prior to the end of its useful life, it would be unusual for undiscounted cash flows to be insufficient to recover the property carrying value. in the absence of other factors, we assume that the estimated life is equal to the gaap depreciable life because of the continuous property maintenance and improvement capital expenditures required under our management agreements. we adjust our assumptions with respect to the remaining useful life of the property if situations dictate otherwise, such as an expiring ground lease, or it is more likely than not that the asset will be sold prior to its previously expected useful life. we also consider the effect of regular renewal and replacement capital expenditures on the estimable life of our properties, including critical infrastructure, which is regularly maintained and then replaced at the end of its useful life. we test for impairment in several situations, including when a property has a current or projected loss from operations, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, or when other events, trends, contingencies or changes in circumstances indicate that a triggering event has occurred and the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. in the evaluation of the impairment of our assets, we make many assumptions and estimates, including: projected cash flows, both from operations and the eventual disposition; expected useful life and holding period; future required capital expenditures; and fair values, including consideration of capitalization rates, discount rates and comparable selling prices. while we consider all of the above indicators as a preliminary indicator to determine if the carrying value may not be recovered by undiscounted cash flows, we reviewed the actual year-to-date and the projected cash flows from operations to identify properties with actual or projected annual operating losses or minimal operating profit as of december 31, 2012. the projected cash flows consider items such as booking pace, occupancy, room rate and property-level operating costs. as a result of our review, we identified five properties that required further consideration of property and market specific conditions or factors to determine if the property was impaired using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. management considered a range of revpar and operating margins compared to prior years operating results in evaluating the probability-weighted projected cash flows from operations. to appropriately evaluate if the carrying value of the assets was recoverable, we projected cash flows such that the 77 table of contents individual properties would return to normalized levels of operations generally within five years and thereafter grow at a stabilized rate of approximately 3% over the remaining estimable lives of the properties. this stabilized growth rate is lower than the projected growth rate for the urban upper upscale properties, which we believe is most representative of our portfolio, over the period from 2012 through 2022. based on this test, one property exhibited an impaired value at december 31, 2012. for purposes of this test, if we had assumed a growth rate of 50 basis points lower after the return to normalized levels of operations, none of the other four properties identified above would have required further analysis. management believes its assumptions and estimates reflect current market conditions. we recognized impairment expense in the aggregate amount of $60 million and $8 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively, based on a change in their estimated hold periods. other-than-temporary impairment of an investment. we review our equity method investments for other-than-temporary impairment based on the occurrence of any triggering events that would indicate that the carrying amount of the investment exceeds its fair value on an other-than-temporary basis. triggering events can include a decline in distributable cash flows from the investment, a change in the expected hold period or other significant events which would decrease the value of the investment. our investments primarily consist of joint ventures which own hotel properties; therefore, we generally will have few observable inputs and will determine the fair value based on a discounted cash flow analysis of the investment, as well as considering the impact of other elements (i.e. control premiums, etc.). we use certain inputs, such as available third-party appraisals and forecast net operating income for the hotel properties, to estimate the expected cash flows. if an equity method investment is impaired, a loss is recorded for the difference between its fair value and its carrying value. based on this test, no other-than-temporary impairment was recorded in 2012. classification of assets as held for sale. our policy for the classification of a hotel as held for sale is intended to ensure that the sale of the asset is probable prior to classifying it as such, will be completed within one year and that actions required to complete the sale are unlikely to change or that it is unlikely the planned sale will not occur. this policy is consistent with our experience with real estate transactions under which the timing and final terms of a sale are frequently not known until purchase agreements are executed, the buyer has a significant deposit at risk and no financing contingencies exist which could prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner. specifically, we typically will classify properties that we are actively marketing as held for sale when all of the following conditions are met: host inc. board of directors has approved the sale (to the extent that the dollar amount of the sale requires board approval); a binding agreement to purchase the property has been signed; the buyer has committed a significant amount of non-refundable cash; and no significant contingencies exist which could prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner. to the extent that a property is classified as held for sale and its fair value less selling costs is lower than the net book value of the property, we will record an impairment loss. depreciation and amortization expense. depreciation expense is based on the estimated useful life of our assets and amortization expense for leasehold improvements is based on the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful life of the related assets. the lives of the assets are based on a number of assumptions, including cost and timing of capital expenditures to maintain and refurbish the assets, as well as specific market and economic conditions. while management believes its estimates are reasonable, a change in the estimated lives could affect depreciation expense and net income (loss) or the gain or loss on the sale of any of our hotels. valuation of deferred tax assets. we have approximately $90 million, net of a valuation allowance of $63 million, of deferred tax assets as of december 31, 2012. the objective of financial accounting and reporting standards for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in a company financial statements or tax returns. we have considered various factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future projected taxable income and tax planning strategies in determining a valuation 78 table of contents allowance for our deferred tax assets, and we believe that it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize the $90 million of net deferred tax assets in the future. when a determination is made that all, or a portion, of the deferred tax assets may not be realized, an increase in income tax expense would be recorded in that period. valuation of derivative contracts. we occasionally will enter into derivative products, including interest rate and foreign currency swaps, caps and collars. derivative instruments are subject to fair value reporting at each reporting date and the increase or decrease in fair value is recorded in net income (loss) or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), based on the applicable hedge accounting guidance. we estimate the fair value of these instruments through the use of third party valuations, which utilize the market standard methodology of netting the discounted future cash receipts and the discounted future expected cash payments. we incorporate credit valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect both our own nonperformance risk and the respective counterparty nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. in adjusting the fair value of our derivative contracts for the effect of nonperformance risk, we have considered the impact of netting any applicable credit enhancements, such as collateral postings, thresholds, mutual puts and guarantees. the variable cash flow streams are based on an expectation of future interest and exchange rates derived from observed market interest and exchange rate curves. the values of these instruments will change over time as cash receipts and payments are made and as market conditions change. any event that impacts the level of actual and expected future interest or exchange rates will impact our valuations. the fair value of our derivatives is likely to fluctuate from year-to-year based on changing levels of interest and exchange rates and shortening terms to maturity. stock compensation. we recognize costs resulting from host inc. share-based payment transactions over their vesting periods. we classify share-based payment awards granted in exchange for employee services as either equity awards or liability awards. the classification of host inc. restricted stock awards as either an equity award or a liability award is based upon cash settlement options. equity classified awards are measured based on the fair value on the date of grant. liability classified awards are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. awards are classified as liability awards to the extent that settlement features allow the recipient to have a percentage of the restricted stock awards withheld to meet tax withholding requirements. the value of these restricted stock awards, less estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award the requisite service period (usually the vesting period). no compensation cost is recognized for awards for which employees do not render the requisite services. on january 20, 2012, the compensation policy committee of the board of directors adopted a new compensation plan for senior management (the 2012 plan ), that replaces the expired 2009 compensation program. components of the 2012 plan include the following awards: restricted stock awards with vesting based on market conditions. these awards vest based on the total shareholder return ( tsr ) relative to (i) the nareit index, (ii) the s&amp;p index and (iii) a selected lodging company index that serves as a relevant industry/asset specific measurement to our competitors. u.s. based senior management may elect to have amounts withheld for taxes in excess of minimum statutory tax requirements, and, as result, tsr awards granted to these employees are classified as liability awards and are remeasured to fair value each reporting period. in contrast, senior management located outside of the u.s. are limited as to the amount of shares they may use for statutory tax requirements, and, as result, tsr awards granted to these employees are classified as equity awards and are recorded at fair value as of the grant date. the valuation of these awards is a custom calculation that is based on common valuation techniques such as the lattice, binomial and black-scholes valuation methodologies. the utilization of this model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of host inc. common stock, risk-free interest rates, actual tsr from the beginning of the performance period through the measurement date, host inc. stock beta as compared to the risk to the average risk of the peer groups. restricted stock awards with vesting based on performance conditions. these awards are earned based on the employee achieving a specified performance target, which will be based on the employee specific management business objectives. compensation cost will be recognized when the achievement of the performance condition is considered probable. if a performance condition has more than one outcome that is probable, recognition of compensation cost will be based on the condition that is the most likely outcome. for u.s. based senior management, these awards are classified as liability awards due to their cash settlement provisions. therefore, the value of the shares to be issued by host inc. will be based on host inc. share price on the reporting date. stock option awards. the stock option awards are equity classified awards, as they do not include cash settlement features. therefore, the value of the award is determined on the grant date using a binomial pricing model and is not adjusted for future changes in fair value. vesting for these awards is based on service conditions. the utilization of the binomial model requires us to make certain estimates related to the volatility of the share price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates and the amount of our awards expected to be forfeited, and our expected dividend yield. 79 table of contents on january 20, 2012, host inc. granted senior management 1.6 million restricted shares for performance year 2012 (which represent the maximum number of shares that can be earned during the year if performance is at the high level of achievement). vesting of these shares is subject to meeting the performance measures outlined above. approximately 50% of the restricted shares granted are market-based with the remaining performance-based. in addition, the company awarded approximately 0.2 million stock options with an exercise price of $16.23 per share for performance year 2012. during 2012, we recorded approximately $16 million of stock compensation expense associated with the 2012 grant. consolidation policies. judgment is required with respect to the consolidation of partnership and joint venture entities in terms of the evaluation of control, including assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests that are not controllable through voting interests. we consolidate subsidiaries when we have the ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the subsidiary. for the majority of our hotel and real estate investments, we consider those rights to be (i) approval or amendment of developments plans, (ii) financing decisions, (iii) approval or amendments of operating budgets and (iv) investment strategy decisions. for those partnerships and joint ventures of which we are the general partner, we review the rights of the limited partners to determine if those rights would preclude the presumption of control as the general partner. limited partner rights which would preclude presumption of control by the general partner include the substantive ability to dissolve (liquidate) the limited partnership or otherwise remove us, as the general partner, without cause and substantive participating rights, primarily through voting rights. we also evaluate our subsidiaries to determine if they should be considered variable interest entities ( vies ). if a subsidiary is a vie, it is subject to the consolidation framework specifically for vies. we consider an entity a vie if equity investors own an interest therein that does not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or if such investors do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support. we review our subsidiaries and affiliates annually to determine if (i) they should be considered vies, and (ii) whether we should change our consolidation determination based on changes in their characteristics. foreign currency translation. the operations of international subsidiaries are maintained in their functional currency, which generally is the local currency, and are translated to u.s. dollars using the average exchange rates for the period. the assets and liabilities are translated to u.s. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. the resulting translation adjustments are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). foreign currency transactions are recorded in the functional currency of each entity using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are remeasured at period end exchange rates. the resulting exchange differences are recorded in gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions and derivatives, except when deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as qualifying net investment hedges. comparable hotel operating statistics to facilitate a year-to-year comparison of our operations, we present certain operating statistics (i.e., revpar, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses, adjusted operating profit and associated margins) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. because these statistics and operating results are for our hotel properties, they exclude results for our non-hotel properties and other real estate investments. we define our comparable hotels as properties: (i) that are owned or leased by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations, for the entirety of the reporting periods being compared; and (ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or business interruption, or undergone large-scale capital projects (as further defined below) during the reporting periods being compared. 80 table of contents the hotel business is capital-intensive and renovations are a regular part of the business. generally, hotels under renovation remain comparable hotels. a large scale capital project that would cause a hotel to be excluded from our comparable hotel set is an extensive renovation of several core aspects of the hotel, such as rooms, meeting space, lobby, bars, restaurants and other public spaces. both quantitative and qualitative factors are taken into consideration in determining if the renovation would cause a hotel to be removed from the comparable hotel set, including unusual or exceptional circumstances such as: a reduction or increase in room count, rebranding, a significant alteration of the business operations, or the closing of the hotel during the renovation. we do not include an acquired hotel in our comparable hotel set until the operating results for that hotel have been included in our consolidated results for one full calendar year. for example, we acquired the westin chicago river north in august of 2010. the hotel was not included in our comparable hotels until january 1, 2012. hotels that we sell are excluded from the comparable hotel set once the transaction has closed. similarly, hotels are excluded from our comparable hotel set from the date that they sustain substantial property damage or business interruption or commence a large-scale capital project. in each case, these hotels are returned to the comparable hotel set when the operations of the hotel have been included in our consolidated results for one full calendar year after completion of the repair of the property damage or cessation of the business interruption, or the completion of large-scale capital projects, as applicable. of the 119 hotels we owned on december 31, 2012, 103 have been classified as comparable hotels. the operating results of the following hotels that we owned or leased as of december 31, 2012 are excluded from comparable hotel results for these periods: grand hyatt washington (acquired in july 2012); hilton melbourne south wharf (acquired in april 2011); the westin new york grand central (acquired in march 2011); manchester grand hyatt san diego (acquired in march 2011); the portfolio of seven hotels in new zealand (acquired in february 2011); orlando world center marriott (business interruption due to a large-scale capital project, which includes fa&ccedil;ade restoration, the shutdown of the main pool and a complete restoration and enhancement of the hotel, including new water slides and activity areas, new pool dining facilities and the renovation of one tower of guestrooms, meeting space and restaurants); atlanta marriott perimeter center (business interruption due to extensive renovations, which included renovation of the guest rooms, lobby, bar and restaurant and the demolition of one tower of the hotel, reducing the room count at the hotel); chicago marriott o hare (business interruption due to extensive renovations, which included renovating every aspect of the hotel and shutting down over 200 rooms); sheraton indianapolis hotel at keystone crossing (business interruption due to extensive renovations, which included the conversion of one tower of the hotel into apartments, reducing the room count, and the renovation of the remaining guest rooms, lobby, bar and meeting space); and san diego marriott marquis &amp; marina (business interruption due to extensive renovations, which included the renovation of every aspect of the hotel and required the entire hotel to be closed for a period of time). the operating results of the le m&eacute;ridien piccadilly, which was transferred to the euro jv fund ii in 2011, and of the four hotels we disposed of in 2012 and 2011, as well as the 53 courtyard by marriott properties previously leased from hpt, are not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein. 81 table of contents we evaluate the operating performance of our comparable hotels based on both geographic region and property type. these divisions are generally consistent with groupings recognized in the lodging industry. geographic regions consist of the following (only states in which we own hotels are listed): pacific california, hawaii, oregon and washington; mountain arizona and colorado; north central illinois, indiana, minnesota, missouri and ohio; south central louisiana, tennessee and texas; new england massachusetts and new hampshire; mid-atlantic pennsylvania, new jersey and new york; dc metro maryland, virginia and washington, d.c.; atlanta georgia; florida florida; canada canada; latin america brazil, chile and mexico; and asia/pacific australia and new zealand. property types consist of the following: urban hotels located in primary business districts of major cities; suburban hotels located in office parks or smaller secondary markets; resort/conference hotels located in resort/conference destinations such as arizona, florida, hawaii and southern california; and airport hotels located at or near airports. reporting periods. effective january 1, 2013, marriott announced that it will convert from a 52-53 week fiscal year to a 12-month calendar year. while our annual financial statements have always been reported on a calendar basis and are unaffected by this change, our quarterly results have not been on a 3-month calendar quarter basis (as they followed marriott period schedule). however, beginning with the first quarter of 2013, we will report annual and quarterly operating results on a calendar reporting cycle, which is consistent with the majority of companies in the lodging industry. we will not restate any previously reported quarterly financial statements to conform to the new presentation. accordingly, investors may find the following discussion useful when evaluating quarterly operations in 2013 with prior year quarterly results for both financial statement presentation and hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results. for consolidated statement of operations. the results we report are based on results of our hotels reported to us by our hotel managers. our hotel managers use different reporting periods. marriott international inc., the manager of a significant percentage of our properties, prior to january 1, 2013 used a fiscal year ending on the friday closest to december 31 and reported twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year for its u.s. and canadian marriott-managed hotels. in contrast, other managers of our hotels, such as hyatt and starwood, report results on a monthly basis. host inc., as a reit, is required by federal income tax law to report results on a calendar year basis. as a result, we elected to adopt the reporting periods used by marriott, modified so that our fiscal year always ends on december 31 in order to comply with reit rules. our first three quarters of operations end on the same day as marriott, but our fourth quarter ends on december 31 and our full year results, as reported in our statement of operations, always includes the same number of days as the calendar year. 82 table of contents two consequences of the reporting cycle we have adopted for periods prior to january 1, 2013 are: (1) quarterly start dates will usually differ between years, except for the first quarter which always commences on january 1, and (2) our first and fourth quarters of operations and year-to-date operations may not include the same number of days as reflected in prior years. for example, set forth below are the quarterly start and end dates for 2012 and 2011. note that the second and third quarters of each year both reflect twelve weeks of operations. in contrast, the first and fourth quarters reflect differing days of operations. 2012 2011 start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days first quarter january 1 march 23 83 january 1 march 25 84 second quarter march 24 june 15 84 march 26 june 17 84 third quarter june 16 september 7 84 june 18 september 9 84 fourth quarter september 8 december 31 115 september 10 december 31 113 while the reporting calendar we adopted for periods prior to january 1, 2013 is more closely aligned with the reporting calendar used by marriott, another consequence of our calendar is that we are unable to report the month of operations that ends after our fiscal quarter-end until the following quarter because our hotel managers that use a monthly reporting period do not make mid-month results available to us. hence, the month of operation that ends after our fiscal quarter-end is included in our quarterly results of operations in the following quarter for those hotel managers (covering approximately 48% of total revenues of our hotels). as a result, our quarterly results of operations include results from hotel managers reporting results on a monthly basis as follows: first quarter (january, february), second quarter (march to may), third quarter (june to august) and fourth quarter (september to december). while this does not affect full year results, it does affect the reporting of quarterly results for years prior to 2013. for hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results. in contrast to the reporting periods for our consolidated statement of operations, our 2011 and 2012 hotel operating statistics (i.e., revpar, average daily rate and average occupancy) and our 2011 and 2012 comparable hotel results are reported based on the reporting cycle used by marriott in those years for our marriott-managed hotels. this facilitates year-to-year comparisons, as each reporting period will be comprised of the same number of days of operations as in the prior year. this means, however, that the reporting periods we used for hotel operating statistics and our comparable hotel results for 2012 and 2011 will differ slightly from the reporting periods used for our statements of operations for the first and fourth quarters and the full year. set forth below are the quarterly start and end dates that are used for our hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results reported herein. results from hotel managers reporting on a monthly basis are included in our operating statistics and comparable hotel results consistent with their reporting in our consolidated statement of operations. hotel result reporting periods for operating statistics and comparable hotel results for marriott managed properties 2012 2011 start-end dates no. of days start-end dates no. of days first quarter december 31 march 23 84 january 1 march 25 84 second quarter march 24 june 15 84 march 26 june 17 84 third quarter june 16 september 7 84 june 18 september 9 84 fourth quarter september 8 december 28 112 september 10 december 30 112 non-gaap financial measures we use certain non-gaap financial measures, which are measures of our historical financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with gaap, within the meaning of applicable sec rules. these measures are as follows: (i) ebitda and adjusted ebitda, as a measure of performance for host inc. and host l.p., (ii) funds from operations ( ffo ) and ffo per diluted share (both nareit and adjusted), as a measure of performance for host inc., and (iii) comparable hotel operating results, as a measure of performance for host inc. and host l.p. 83 table of contents we calculate nareit ffo per diluted share in accordance with standards established by nareit, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the nareit definition of ffo or do not calculate ffo per diluted share in accordance with nareit guidance. in addition, although ffo per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other reits, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-reits. we also calculate adjusted ffo per diluted share, which is not in accordance with nareit guidance and may not be comparable to measures calculated by other reits. ebitda and adjusted ebitda, as presented, may also not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies. this information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with gaap. cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures), interest expense (for ebitda and adjusted ebitda purposes only) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the ebitda, adjusted ebitda, nareit ffo per diluted share and adjusted ffo per diluted share presentations. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include interest expense, capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-gaap financial measures. additionally, nareit ffo per diluted share, adjusted ffo per diluted share, ebitda and adjusted ebitda should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. in addition, nareit ffo per diluted share and adjusted ffo per diluted share do not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to stockholders benefit. the following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful measures of our performance. ebitda and adjusted ebitda ebitda earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) is a commonly used measure of performance in many industries. management believes ebitda provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because it helps us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our properties after removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest expense) and our asset base (primarily depreciation and amortization). management also believes the use of ebitda facilitates comparisons between us and other lodging reits, hotel owners who are not reits and other capital-intensive companies. management uses ebitda to evaluate property-level results and as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and, like ffo and adjusted ffo per diluted share, it is widely used by management in the annual budget process and for compensation programs. adjusted ebitda historically, management has adjusted ebitda when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance and that the presentation of adjusted ebitda, when combined with the primary gaap presentation of net income, is beneficial to an investor complete understanding of our operating performance. adjusted ebitda is also a relevant measure in calculating certain credit ratios. we adjust ebitda for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as adjusted ebitda: real estate transactions we exclude the effect of gains and losses, including the amortization of deferred gains, recorded on the disposition or acquisition of depreciable assets and property insurance gains in our consolidated statement of operations because we believe that including them in adjusted ebitda is not consistent with reflecting the ongoing performance of our assets. in addition, material gains or losses from the depreciated value of the disposed assets could be less important to investors given that the depreciated asset value often does not reflect its market value (as noted below for ffo). equity investment adjustments we exclude the equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated investments in partnerships and joint ventures as presented in our consolidated statement of operations because it includes our pro rata portion of depreciation, amortization and interest expense, which are 84 table of contents excluded from ebitda. we include our pro rata share of the adjusted ebitda of our equity investments as we believe this more accurately reflects the performance of our investments. the pro rata adjusted ebitda of equity investments is defined as the ebitda of our equity investments adjusted for any gains or losses on property transactions multiplied by our percentage ownership in the partnership or joint venture. consolidated partnership adjustments we deduct the non-controlling partners pro rata share of the adjusted ebitda of our consolidated partnerships as this reflects the non-controlling owners interest in the ebitda of our consolidated partnerships. the pro rata adjusted ebitda of non-controlling partners is defined as the ebitda of our consolidated partnerships adjusted for any gains or losses on property transactions multiplied by the non-controlling partners positions in the partnership or joint venture. cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle infrequently, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) promulgates new accounting standards that require the consolidated statement of operations to reflect the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. we exclude these one-time adjustments because they do not reflect our actual performance for that period. impairment losses we exclude the effect of impairment losses recorded because we believe that including them in adjusted ebitda is not consistent with reflecting the ongoing performance of our remaining assets. in addition, we believe that impairment charges, which are based off of historical cost account values, are similar to gains (losses) on dispositions and depreciation expense, both of which are also excluded from ebitda. acquisition costs under gaap, costs associated with completed property acquisitions are expensed in the year incurred. we exclude the effect of these costs because we believe they are not reflective of the ongoing performance of the company. the following table provides a reconciliation of net income (loss) to adjusted ebitda (in millions): reconciliation of net income (loss) to ebitda, adjusted ebitda year ended december 31, 2012 2011 net income (loss) (a) $ 63 $ (16 ) interest expense 373 371 depreciation and amortization 691 638 income taxes 31 (1 ) discontinued operations (b) 3 9 ebitda (a) 1,161 1,001 gain on dispositions (c) (48 ) acquisition costs 7 5 gain on property insurance settlement (2 ) non-cash impairment charges 60 8 amortization of deferred gains (4 ) (7 ) equity investment adjustments: equity in earnings of affiliates (2 ) (4 ) pro rata adjusted ebitda of equity investments 34 29 consolidated partnership adjustments: pro rata adjusted ebitda attributable to non-controlling partners in consolidated partnerships (16 ) (14 ) adjusted ebitda (a) $ 1,190 $ 1,018 (a) net income (loss), ebitda, and adjusted ebitda include the following significant transactions: a gain of $8 million in 2012 for the sale of the land to the maui jv; business interruption proceeds of $9 million recorded in 2012; and interest income of $20 million for 2012 on our mortgage loan investment associated with the portfolio of five hotels acquired by the euro jv, which was paid in full in 2012, compared to $17 million in 2011. (b) reflects interest expense, depreciation and amortization and income taxes included in discontinued operations. (c) reflects the gain on the sale of three hotels in 2012. 85 table of contents nareit ffo, nareit ffo per diluted share and adjusted ffo per diluted share. we present nareit ffo and nareit ffo per diluted share as non-gaap measures of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with gaap). we calculate nareit ffo per diluted share as our nareit ffo (defined as set forth below) for a given operating period, as adjusted for the effect of dilutive securities, divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period in accordance with nareit guidelines. nareit defines ffo as net income (calculated in accordance with gaap), excluding gains (losses) from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate-related depreciation, amortization and impairments and adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures are calculated to reflect our pro rata ffo of those entities on the same basis. we believe that nareit ffo per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that the presentation of nareit ffo per diluted share, when combined with the primary gaap presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. by excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization, impairments and gains and losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of lesser significance in evaluating current performance, we believe such measures can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and with other reits, even though nareit ffo per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. as noted by nareit in its april 2002 white paper on funds from operations, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. for these reasons, nareit adopted the ffo metric in order to promote an industry-wide measure of reit operating performance. we also present adjusted ffo per diluted share when evaluating our performance because management believes that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance. management historically has made the adjustments detailed below in evaluating our performance, in our annual budget process and for our compensation programs. we believe that the presentation of adjusted ffo per diluted share, when combined with both the primary gaap presentation of earnings per share and ffo per diluted share as defined by nareit, provides useful supplemental information that is beneficial to an investor complete understanding of our operating performance. we adjust nareit ffo per diluted share for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as adjusted ffo per diluted share: gains and losses on the extinguishment of debt we exclude the effect of finance charges and premiums associated with the extinguishment of debt, including the acceleration of deferred financing costs from the original issuance of the debt being redeemed or retired. we also exclude the gains on debt repurchases and the original issuance costs associated with the retirement of preferred stock. we believe that these items are not reflective of our ongoing finance costs. acquisition costs under gaap, costs associated with completed property acquisitions are expensed in the year incurred. we exclude the effect of these costs because we believe they are not reflective of the ongoing performance of the company. litigation gains and losses we exclude the effect of gains or losses associated with litigation recorded under gaap that we consider outside the ordinary course of business. we believe that including these items is not consistent with our ongoing operating performance. 86 table of contents the following tables provide a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common stockholders per share to ffo per diluted share for host inc. (in millions, except per share amounts): host inc. reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common stockholders to nareit and adjusted funds from operations per diluted share year ended december 31, 2012 2011 net income (loss) $ 63 $ (16 ) less: net (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interests (2 ) 1 net income (loss) available to common stockholders 61 (15 ) adjustments: gain on dispositions, net of taxes (a) (48 ) gain on property insurance settlement (2 ) amortization of deferred gains and other property transactions, net of taxes (4 ) (7 ) depreciation and amortization 691 645 non-cash impairment charges 60 8 partnership adjustments 12 4 ffo of non-controlling interests of host l.p. (11 ) (9 ) nareit ffo (b) 759 626 adjustments to nareit ffo: losses on the extinguishment of debt (c) 35 10 acquisition costs (d) 10 8 litigation losses 5 loss attributable to non-controlling interests (e) (1 ) adjusted ffo $ 803 $ 649 for calculation on a per diluted share basis: adjustments for dilutive securities (f): assuming conversion of exchangeable senior debentures $ 31 $ 30 assuming deduction of interest redeemed/exchanged 2004 debentures 2 nareit ffo $ 790 $ 658 adjusted ffo $ 834 $ 681 diluted weighted average shares outstanding-eps 719.6 693.0 assuming issuance of common shares granted under the comprehensive stock plan 2.0 assuming conversion of exchangeable senior debentures 40.4 39.8 weighted average outstanding shares redeemed/exchanged 2004 debentures 4.7 diluted weighted average shares outstanding nareit ffo and adjusted ffo 760.0 739.5 nareit ffo per diluted share $ 1.04 $ .89 adjusted ffo per diluted share $ 1.10 $ .92 (a) reflects the gain on the sale of three hotels in 2012. (b) see note (a) to reconciliation of net income (loss) to ebitda and adjusted ebitda for significant transactions affecting ffo. (c) represents costs associated with the redemption of the series s, series o and series q notes in 2012 and the series k senior notes and 2007 debentures in 2011. (d) includes approximately $3 million for both 2012 and 2011 related to our share of acquisition costs incurred by unconsolidated joint ventures. (e) represents the portion of the adjustments to nareit ffo attributable to non-controlling partners in host l.p. (f) earnings/loss per diluted share and ffo per diluted share in accordance with nareit are adjusted for the effects of dilutive securities. dilutive securities may include host inc. shares granted under host inc. comprehensive stock plans, preferred op units held by non-controlling partners, exchangeable debt securities and other non-controlling interests that have the option to convert their limited partnership interests to common op units. no effect is shown for securities if they are anti-dilutive. comparable hotel operating results. we present certain operating results for our hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses, adjusted operating profit and adjusted operating profit margin, on a comparable hotel, or same 87 table of contents store, basis as supplemental information for investors. our comparable hotel results present operating results for hotels owned during the entirety of the periods being compared without giving effect to any acquisitions or dispositions, significant property damage or large scale capital improvements during these periods. we present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate-level costs, including expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. we eliminate corporate-level costs and expenses to arrive at property level results because we believe property-level results provide investors with more specific insight into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels. we eliminate depreciation and amortization because, even though depreciation and amortization are property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. as noted earlier, because real estate values historically have risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. as a result of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses or operating profit and these comparable hotel operating results should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance. we present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period-to-period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel reits and hotel owners. in particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increases or decreases in revenues and/or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. while management believes that presentation of comparable hotel results is a same store supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or to assess the operating performance of these hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable portfolio hotel results. for these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of gaap operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management. 88 table of contents the following table presents certain operating results and statistics for our comparable hotels for the periods presented herein: comparable hotel results for host inc. and host l.p. (in millions, except hotel statistics) (a) year ended december 31, 2012 2011 number of hotels 103 103 number of rooms 54,804 54,804 percent change in comparable hotel revpar 6.4 % operating profit margin under gaap (b) 7.2 % 6.6 % comparable hotel adjusted operating profit margin (b) 24.0 % 22.6 % comparable hotel revenues room $ 2,849 $ 2,672 food and beverage 1,314 1,264 other 265 259 comparable hotel revenues (c) 4,428 4,195 comparable hotel expenses room 768 728 food and beverage 977 943 other 149 149 management fees, ground rent and other costs 1,473 1,429 comparable hotel expenses (d) 3,367 3,249 comparable hotel adjusted operating profit 1,061 946 non-comparable hotel results, net (e) 183 135 loss from hotels leased from hpt (3 ) (6 ) depreciation and amortization (751 ) (638 ) corporate and other expenses (107 ) (111 ) operating profit $ 383 $ 326 (a) the reporting period for our comparable operating statistics for 2012 is from december 31, 2011 to december 28, 2012 and for 2011 is january 1, 2011 to december 30, 2011. see reporting periods for more information on our fiscal calendar. (b) operating profit margins are calculated by dividing the applicable operating profit by the related revenue amount. gaap margins are calculated using amounts presented in the consolidated statements of operations. comparable margins are calculated using amounts presented in the above table. (c) the reconciliation of total revenues per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel revenues is as follows: year ended december 31, 2012 2011 revenues per the consolidated statements of operations $ 5,286 $ 4,924 non-comparable hotel revenues (677 ) (559 ) hotel revenues for the property for which we record rental income, net 51 51 revenues for hotels leased from hpt (232 ) (221 ) comparable hotel revenues $ 4,428 $ 4,195 89 table of contents (d) the reconciliation of operating costs per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel expenses is as follows: year ended december 31, 2012 2011 operating costs and expenses per the consolidated statements of operations $ 4,903 $ 4,598 non-comparable hotel expenses (494 ) (424 ) hotel expenses for the property for which we record rental income 51 51 expense for hotels leased from hpt (235 ) (227 ) depreciation and amortization (751 ) (638 ) corporate and other expenses (107 ) (111 ) comparable hotel expenses $ 3,367 $ 3,249 (e) non-comparable hotel results, net, includes the following items: (i) the results of operations of our non-comparable hotels whose operations are included in our consolidated statements of operations as continuing operations, (ii) gains on insurance settlements, (iii) the results of our office buildings, and (iv) the difference between the number of days of operations reflected in the comparable hotel results and the number of days of operations reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. 90 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk all information in this section applies to host inc. and host l.p. interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevailing market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. we have no derivative financial instruments that are held for trading purposes. we use derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks. the interest payments on 83% of our debt are fixed in nature (this percentage does not include $300 million of mortgage debt for which we have swapped fixed interest payments for floating interest payments), which largely mitigates the effect of changes in interest rates on our cash interest payments. valuations for mortgage debt and the credit facility are determined based on expected future payments, discounted at risk-adjusted rates. the senior notes and the debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increase or decrease by 100 basis points, interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, our future earnings and cash flows by approximately $13 million in 2013. the table below presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates (in millions, except percentages): expected maturity date fair value 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total liabilities debt: fixed rate (1) $ 232 $ 631 $ 396 $ 547 $ 439 $ 2,131 $ 4,376 $ 4,845 average interest rate 6.16 % 6.38 % 6.42 % 6.33 % 5.93 % 5.64 % variable rate (1) $ $ $ 263 $ 272 $ 500 $ $ 1,035 $ 1,035 average interest rate (2) 2.85 % 2.85 % 2.86 % 2.60 % 2.01 % % total debt $ 5,411 $ 5,880 interest rate derivative fixed to variable-notional $ $ 300 $ $ $ $ fair value (asset)/liability $ (7 ) average pay rate (2) 3.36 % 3.36 % % % % % average receive rate 5.531 % 5.531 % % % % % variable to fixed-notional $ $ $ $ 129 $ $ fair value (asset)/liability $ 6 average pay rate 6.93 % 6.93 % 6.93 % 6.76 % % % average receive rate (2) 5.36 % 5.36 % 5.36 % 5.55 % % % (1) the amounts are net of unamortized discounts and premiums. (2) the interest rate for our floating rate payments is based on the rate in effect as of december 31, 2012. no adjustments are made for forecast changes in the rate. 91 table of contents interest rate swap derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. we have designated our floating-to-fixed interest rate swap derivatives as cash flow hedges. the purpose of the interest rate swaps is to hedge against changes in cash flows (interest payments) attributable to fluctuations in benchmark interest rates associated with variable rate debt. the derivatives are valued based on the prevailing market yield curve on the date of measurement. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk when we calculate the fair value of the swaps. changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) on the accompanying balance sheets. the hedges were fully effective as of december 31, 2012. the following table summarizes our interest rate swap derivatives designated as cash flow hedges (in millions): total notional maturity swapped all-in fixed rate change in fair value gain(loss) year ended december 31, transaction date amount date index we pay 2012 2011 november 2011 (1) a$ 62 november 2016 reuters bbsy 6.7 % $ (1.7 ) $ (0.3 ) february 2011 (2) nz$ 79 february 2016 nz$ bank bill 7.15 % $ 0.3 $ (2.7 ) (1) the swap was entered into in connection with the $85 million mortgage loan on the hilton melbourne south wharf. (2) the swap was entered into in connection with the $87 million mortgage loan on seven properties in new zealand. interest rate swap derivatives designated as fair value hedges. we have designated our fixed-to-floating interest rate swap derivatives as fair value hedges. we enter into these derivative instruments to hedge changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt that occur as a result of changes in market interest rates. the derivatives are valued based on the prevailing market yield curve on the date of measurement. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk in the calculation of the fair value of the swaps. the change in the fair value of the derivative is offset largely by the corresponding change in the fair value of the underlying debt due to change in the 3-month libor rate, which is recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the debt. any difference between the change in the fair value of the swap and the change in the fair value in the underlying debt, which was not significant for the periods presented, is considered the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship and is recorded in net income (loss). we have three fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements for an aggregate notional amount of $300 million. during 2012 and 2011, the fair value of the swaps decreased $3.5 million and increased $0.3 million, respectively. as a result, we will pay a floating interest rate equal to the 3-month libor, plus a spread which ranges from 2.7% to 3.2%, as opposed to the fixed rate of 5.531%, on the notional amount of $300 million through march 1, 2014. during each of 2012 and 2011, the cash settlement received under the swap agreement decreased interest expense by $6 million. if we were to increase the interest rates from the prevailing market yield curve, which for our reverse swaps is 3-month libor, by 25% at december 31, 2012, then the fair value of the swap would decrease $0.3 million. similarly, if we were to decrease the interest rates from the prevailing market yield curve by 25% at december 31, 2012, then the fair value of the swap would increase by $0.3 million. exchange rate sensitivity we have currency exchange risk as a result of our hotel ownership in australia, canada, chile, mexico, brazil, and new zealand and our investment in the european and asia/pacific joint ventures. to manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-u.s. hotels, where possible, we may enter into forward or option foreign currency purchase contracts or designate a portion of the foreign currency draws on our credit facility as hedges of net investments in foreign operations. the foreign currency exchange agreements that we have entered into were strictly to hedge foreign currency risk and not for trading purposes. as of december 31, 2012, we have six foreign currency forward sale contracts that hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in foreign operations. these derivatives are considered hedges of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation and are marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within the equity portion of our balance sheets. the forward sale contracts are valued based on the forward yield curve of the foreign currency to u.s. dollar forward exchange rate on the date of measurement. pursuant to these contracts, we will sell the euro or nz dollar amount, as applicable, and receive the u.s. dollar amount on the forward sale date. 92 table of contents we also evaluate counterparty credit risk when we calculate the fair value of the derivatives. the following table summarizes our foreign currency sale contracts (in millions): total transaction amount total transaction forward sale date range change in fair value for the period ended transaction date range in foreign currency amount in dollars december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 february 2008 september 2012 105 $ 145 february 2013 september 2015 $ (1.8 ) $ 1.9 july 2011 nz$ 30 $ 25 august 2013 $ (1.9 ) $ 1.9 in addition to the forward sale contracts, we have designated a portion of the foreign currency draws on our credit facility as hedges of net investments in foreign operations. as a result, currency translation adjustments in the designated credit facility draws are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within the equity portion of our balance sheet, which adjustments offset a portion of the translation adjustment related to our international investments. the following table summarizes the draws on our credit facility that are designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations: balance outstanding balance outstanding in gain(loss) year ended december 31, currency us$ foreign currency 2012 2011 cad (1) $ 22 c$ 22 $ $ aud $ 7 a$ 7 $ 0.2 $ eur $ 29 22 $ (2.0 ) $ (1) we have drawn an additional $86 million on the credit facility in canadian dollars that has not been designated as a hedging instrument. 93 table of contentsrisk factors 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 80 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. asia/pacific joint venture. we have a 25% interest in the asia/pacific jv with reco hotels jv private limited, an affiliate of gic re. the agreement may be terminated by either partner at any time after march 2015, which would trigger the liquidation of the jv along with the assets within the jv. due to the ownership structure and the substantive participating rights of the non-host limited 66 partner, including approval over financing, acquisitions and dispositions, and annual operating and capital expenditures budgets, the asia/pacific jv is not consolidated in our financial statements. the commitment period for equity contributions to the asia/pacific jv expired in march 2012. we did not extend the commitment period beyond the expiration date; however, as we continue to invest in asia, we may offer gic re opportunities to participate in certain acquisitions through the existing joint venture or through a new joint venture. as of december 31, 2014, the asia/pacific jv owns one hotel in australia and the partners have invested approximately $83 million (of which our share was $21 million) in a separate joint venture in india with accor s.a. and interglobe enterprises limited, in which the asia/pacific jv holds a 36% interest. this joint venture is developing seven properties in india, totaling approximately 1,750 rooms, two of which opened in bangalore in 2012, one of which opened in chennai in 2014 and four of which are under various stages of development in chennai and delhi. the hotels currently are and will be managed by accor under the pullman, ibis and novotel brands. maui joint venture. we have a 67% ownership in a joint venture with an affiliate of hyatt residential group, a subsidiary of interval leisure group, (the maui jv ) to develop, sell and operate a 131-unit vacation ownership project in maui, hawaii adjacent to our hyatt regency maui resort &amp; spa. our ownership is a non-controlling interest as a result of the significant economic rights held by the interval member, which also is the managing member. the project opened in december 2014 with total development costs to date of $180 million. the total estimated development costs are $200 million, which is partially being funded with a $110 million construction loan, which is jointly and severally guaranteed by us and hyatt hotels corporation, and with member contributions. as of december 31, 2014, $86 million was outstanding on the construction loan. our total investment in the maui jv is approximately $87 million, which as of december 31, 2014 includes contributions of land valued at $36 million, $8 million in pre-formation expenditures and additional capital contributions of $43 million. as of december 31, 2014, the maui jv has recognized $54 million in sales of timeshare units for which we have recognized earnings of $7 million in 2014, including our share of the sales, net of costs, a portion of the deferred gain on the contribution of the land and our share of development fees. the book value of our investment in the maui jv is $61 million. hyatt place joint venture . on november 12, 2013, we opened the 255-room hyatt place nashville downtown in tennessee, which was developed for $43 million through a joint venture, in which we are a 50% partner, with white lodging services. the joint venture has a $34.8 million construction loan for this project, and as of december 31, 2014, $31 million was outstanding on this facility. along with white lodging services, we have jointly and severally guaranteed the payment of the loan. we invested approximately $6 million for our investment in the joint venture. due to the significant control rights of our partner, we do not consolidate the joint venture in our financial statements. for additional discussion on each of our joint venture investments see part ii quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk all information in this section applies to host inc. and host l.p. interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values relevant to financial instruments are dependent upon prevailing market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. we have no derivative financial instruments that are held for trading purposes. we use derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks. the interest payments on 79% of our debt are fixed in nature, which largely mitigates the effect of changes in interest rates on our cash interest payments. valuations for mortgage debt and the credit facility are determined based on expected future payments, discounted at risk-adjusted rates. the senior notes and the debentures are valued based on quoted market prices. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increase or decrease by 100 basis points, interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, our future earnings and cash flows by approximately $10 million in 2015. the table below presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates (in millions, except percentages): expected maturity date fair 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total value liabilities debt: fixed rate (1) $ 386 $ $ $ $ 500 $ 2,149 $ 3,035 $ 3,567 average interest rate 5.45 % 5.28 % 5.28 % 5.28 % 5.19 % 5.07 % variable rate (1) $ $ 253 $ 500 $ 204 $ $ $ 957 $ 957 average interest rate (2) 2.24 % 1.84 % 1.45 % 1.63 % % % total debt $ 3,992 $ 4,524 interest rate derivative variable to fixed-notional $ $ 112 $ $ $ $ fair value (asset)/liability $ 2 average pay rate 6.78 % 6.72 % % % % % average receive rate (2) 5.50 % 5.19 % % % % % ___________ (1) the amounts are net of unamortized discounts and premiums. (2) the interest rate for our floating rate payments is based on the rate in effect as of december 31, 2014. no adjustments are made for forecast changes in the rate. interest rate swap derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. we have designated our floating-to-fixed interest rate swap derivatives as cash flow hedges. the purpose of the interest rate swaps is to hedge against changes in cash flows (interest payments) attributable to fluctuations in benchmark interest rates associated with variable rate debt. the derivatives are valued based on the prevailing market yield curve on the date of measurement. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk when we calculate the fair value of the swaps. changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) on the accompanying balance sheets. the hedges were fully effective as of december 31, 2014. the following table summarizes our interest rate swap derivatives designated as cash flow hedges (in millions): change in fair value gain (loss) total notional maturity swapped all-in- year ended december 31, transaction date amount date index rate 2014 2013 november 2011 (1) a$ 62 november 2016 reuters bbsy 6.7 % $ $ 1 february 2011 (2) nz$ 79 february 2016 nz$ bank bill 7.15 % $ $ 2 ___________ (1) the swap was entered into in connection with the a$86 million ($71 million) mortgage loan on the hilton melbourne south wharf. (2) the swap was entered into in connection with the nz$105 million ($82 million) mortgage loan on seven properties in new zealand. 80 exchange rate sensitivity we have currency exchange risk as a result of our hotel ownership in australia, brazil, canada, chile, mexico and new zealand and our investment in the european and asia/pacific joint ventures. we utilize several strategies to mitigate the exposure of exchange risk for our portfolio, including (i) utilizing local currency denominated debt (including foreign currency draws on our credit facility), (ii) entering into forward or option foreign currency purchase contracts, and (iii) investing through partnership and joint venture structures. for 2014 and 2013, revenues from our consolidated foreign operations were $277 million and $271 million, respectively, or 5% of our total revenues. as of december 31, 2014, our international investments consisted of the following (in millions): consolidated country consolidated assets (book value) mortgage debt non-controlling interest net assets credit facility draw (1) foreign currency forward purchase contracts (notional) net asset exposure 2014 net gain/(loss) on foreign currency exposure (2) australia $ 121 $ (71 ) $ (11 ) $ 39 $ $ $ 39 $ (3 ) brazil 95 95 95 (9 ) canada 96 96 (92 ) (22 ) (18 ) (1 ) chile 65 65 65 (10 ) mexico 29 (14 ) 15 15 (3 ) new zealand 162 (82 ) 80 80 (4 ) united kingdom (18 ) (18 ) 1 $ 568 $ (153 ) $ (25 ) $ 390 $ (110 ) $ (22 ) $ 258 $ (29 ) unconsolidated investment balance foreign currency forward purchase contracts (notional) credit facility draw net asset exposure 2014 net gain/(loss) on foreign currency exposure ( 2 ) european joint venture $ 348 $ (135 ) $ (93 ) $ 120 $ (14 ) asia/pacific joint venture 22 22 $ 370 $ (135 ) $ (93 ) $ 142 $ (14 ) ___________ (1) approximately $27 million of the $92 million cad credit facility draw has been designated as a hedge of our net investment in canadian entities. ( 2 ) includes a net loss of $42 million that is included in accumulated other comprehensive income and $1 million recognized during 2014 in our statement of operations. hedging instruments . as described above, to manage the currency exchange risk applicable to ownership in non-u.s. hotels, where possible, we may enter into forward or option foreign currency purchase contracts or designate a portion of the foreign currency draws on our credit facility as hedges of net investments in foreign operations. the foreign currency exchange agreements into which we have entered strictly are to hedge foreign currency risk and are not for trading purposes. 81 as of december 31, 2014, we have five foreign currency forward sale contracts that hedge a portion of the foreign currency exposure resulting from the eventual repatriation of our net investment in foreign operations. these derivatives are considered hedges of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation and are marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) within the equity portion of our balance sheets. the foreign currency forward sale contracts are valued based on the forward yield curve of the foreign currency to u.s. dollar forward exchange rate on the date of measurement. pursuant to these contracts, we will sell the foreign currency amount, as applicable, and receive the u.s. dollar amount on the forward sale date. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk when we calculate the fair value of the derivatives. as of december 31, 2014, the fair value of our foreign currency forward sale contracts is $13 million. the following table summarizes our foreign currency forward sale contracts (in millions): currently outstanding change in fair value - all contracts total transaction amount in total transaction gain (loss) transaction date foreign amount forward purchase year ended december 31, range currency in dollars date range 2014 2013 july 2011-may 2014 100 $ 135 august 2015-may 2017 $ 18 $ (5 ) november 2014 c$ 25 $ 22 november 2016 $ 1 $ in addition to the foreign currency forward sale contracts, we have designated a portion of the foreign currency draws on our credit facility as hedges of net investments in foreign operations. as a result, currency translation adjustments in the designated credit facility draws are recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) within the equity portion of our balance sheet, which adjustments offset a portion of the translation adjustment related to our international investments. the following table summarizes the draws on our credit facility that are designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations (in millions): balance balance gain (loss) outstanding outstanding in year ended december 31, currency us$ foreign currency 2014 2013 canadian dollars (1) $ 27 c$ 31 $ 2 $ 2 euros $ 93 77 $ 13 $ (5) ___________ (1) we have drawn an additional $65 million on the credit facility in canadian dollars that has not been designated as a hedging instrument. 82risk factors 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 84 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. asia/pacific joint venture. we have a 25% interest in the asia/pacific jv with reco hotels jv private limited, an affiliate of gic re. the agreement may be terminated by either partner at any time, which would trigger the liquidation of the jv. due to the ownership structure and the substantive participating rights of the non-host limited partner, including approval over financing, acquisitions and dispositions, and annual operating and capital expenditures budgets, the asia/pacific jv is not consolidated in our financial statements. the commitment period for equity contributions to the asia/pacific jv expired in march 2012. 70 as of december 31, 2015, the partners have invested approximately $96 million (of which our share was $24 million) in a separate joint venture in india with accor s.a. and interglobe enterprises limited, in which the asia/pacific jv holds a 36% interest. this joint venture owns f ive operating properties and is developing two additional properties in india, totaling approximately 1,750 rooms. two of the properties opened in bangalore in 2012, one opened in chennai in 2014 and two opened in new delhi in 2015. the two properties that are under various stages of development are located in chennai. the hotels currently are and will be managed by accorhotels under the pullman, ibis and novotel brands. on october 14, 2015, the asia/pacific jv sold the four points by sheraton perth for a$91.5 million and repaid a$43 million of mortgage debt. the jv recorded a gain on sale of approximately a$11 million ($8 million). maui joint venture. we have a 67% ownership interest in a joint venture with an affiliate of hv global group, a subsidiary of interval leisure group ( interval ), to develop, sell and operate a 131-unit vacation ownership project in maui, hawaii adjacent to our hyatt regency maui resort &amp; spa (the maui jv ). our ownership is a non-controlling interest as a result of the significant economic rights held by the interval member, which also is the managing member. the project opened in december 2014 with total development costs of approximately $195 million, which was partially funded with a $110 million construction loan. the construction loan is jointly and severally guaranteed by us and hyatt hotels corporation, and with member contributions. as of december 31, 2015, $44 million was outstanding on the construction loan. we have contributed approximately $87 million to the maui jv, which includes the contribution of land valued at $36 million. during 2015 and 2014, the maui jv recognized $76 million and $54 million in sales of timeshare units. we recognized earnings of $9 million and $3 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively, which includes our portion of the net income of the partnership as well as a portion of the deferred gain on the contribution of the land. hyatt place joint venture . we own a 50% interest in the 255-room hyatt place nashville downtown in tennessee, which was developed for $43 million through a joint venture with white lodging services. the joint venture holds a $31 million loan, for which the partners have jointly and/or severally guaranteed 50% or the value. we invested approximately $6 million for our investment in the joint venture. due to the significant control rights of our partner, we do not consolidate the joint venture in our financial statements. for additional discussion on each of our joint venture investments see part iirisk factors 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. asia/pacific joint venture. we have a 25% interest in the asia/pacific jv with reco hotels jv private limited, an affiliate of gic re. the agreement may be terminated by either partner at any time, which would trigger the liquidation of the jv. due to the ownership structure and the substantive participating rights of the non-host limited partner, including approval over financing, acquisitions and dispositions, and annual operating and capital expenditures budgets, the asia/pacific jv is not consolidated in our financial statements. the commitment period for equity contributions to the asia/pacific jv has expired. certain funding commitments remain, however, related to its existing investments in india. as of december 31, 2016, the partners have invested approximately $103 million (of which our share was $26 million) in a separate joint venture in india with accor s.a. and interglobe enterprises limited, in which the asia/pacific jv holds a 36% interest. this joint venture owns five operating properties in delhi, bangalore and chennai and two additional properties in the final stages of completion in chennai, totaling approximately 1,750 rooms. the hotels currently are and will be managed by accorhotels under the pullman, ibis and novotel brands. on october 14, 2015, the asia/pacific jv sold the four points by sheraton perth for a$91.5 million and repaid a$43 million of mortgage debt. the jv recorded a gain on sale of approximately a$11 million ($8 million). during 2016, we received distributions of approximately $9 million from the asia/pacific jv primarily related to the sale of the four points by sheraton perth. maui joint venture. we have a 67% ownership interest in a joint venture with an affiliate of hv global group, a subsidiary of interval leisure group ( interval ), that owns a 131-unit vacation ownership development in maui, hawaii adjacent to our hyatt regency maui resort &amp; spa (the maui jv ). our ownership is a non-controlling interest as a result of the significant economic rights held by the interval member, which also is the managing member. since 2012, we have contributed approximately $87 million to the maui jv, which includes the contribution of land valued at $36 million. as of december 31, 2016, approximately $9 million was outstanding on the joint venture's construction loan, which is jointly and severally guaranteed by us and hyatt hotels corporation. during 2016, 2015 and 2014, the maui jv recognized $55 million, $76 million and $54 million, respectively, of sales of timeshare units. we recognized earnings of $9 million, $11 million and $5 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, which includes our portion of the net income of the joint venture as well as a portion of the deferred gain from the contribution of the land. hyatt place joint venture . we own a 50% interest in a joint venture with white lodging services that owns the 255-room hyatt place nashville downtown in tennessee. in august 2016, the joint venture refinanced its $31 million construction loan with a new $60 million mortgage loan due august 2019 with two 12-month extension options. the loan bears interest at 1-month usd libor plus 300 basis points, or 3.8%, at december 31, 2016. upon repayment of the construction loan, the partners were released of their 69 guarantee on such loan. during 2016, the joint venture also made distributions to its partners, of which we received $17 million. due to the significant control rights of our partner, we do not consolidate the joint venture in our financial statements. harbor beach joint venture. we own a 49.9% interest in a joint venture with r/v-c association that owns the 650-room fort lauderdale marriott harbor beach resort &amp; spa in florida. the joint venture has approximately $149 million of mortgage debt that is non-recourse to us. due to significant control rights of our partner, we do not consolidate the joint venture in our financial statements. during 2016, we received approximately $6 million of distributions from the joint venture as a result of excess cash from operations. for additional discussion on each of our joint venture investments, see part iirisk factors 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk all information in this section applies to host inc. and host l.p. interest rate sensitivity our future income, cash flows and fair values with respect to financial instruments are dependent upon prevailing market interest rates. market risk refers to the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices and interest rates. we have no derivative financial instruments that are held for trading purposes. we use derivative financial instruments to manage, or hedge, interest rate risks. as of february 20, 2020, we do not have any interest rate derivatives outstanding. the interest payments on 74% of our debt are fixed in nature. valuations for mortgage debt and the credit facility are determined based on expected future payments, discounted at risk-adjusted rates. the senior notes are valued based on quoted market prices. if market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increase or decrease by 100 basis points, interest expense would increase or decrease, respectively, our earnings and cash flows by approximately $10 million in 2020. the table below presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates (in millions, except percentages): expected maturity date fair 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total value liabilities debt: fixed rate (1) $ 20 $ (4 ) $ (4 ) $ 847 $ 402 $ 1,544 $ 2,805 $ 2,981 average interest rate 4.1 % 4.1 % 4.1 % 4.0 % 4.0 % 4.0 % variable rate (1) $ (3 ) $ (3 ) $ (3 ) $ (2 ) $ 500 $ 500 $ 989 $ 1,000 average interest rate (2) 2.8 % 2.8 % 2.8 % 2.8 % 2.8 % 2.8 % total debt $ 3,794 $ 3,981 (1) the amounts are net of unamortized discounts and deferred financing costs therefore, negative amounts prior to maturity represent the amortization of original issue discounts and deferred financing costs. (2) the interest rate for our floating rate payments is based on the rate in effect as of december 31, 2019. no adjustments are made for forecast changes in the rate. exchange rate sensitivity we have currency exchange risk because of our hotel ownership in brazil and canada and our minority investment in a joint venture in india. we may utilize several strategies to mitigate the exposure of currency exchange risk for our portfolio, including (i) utilizing local currency denominated debt (including foreign currency draws on our credit facility), (ii) entering into forward or option foreign currency purchase contracts, or (iii) investing through partnership and joint venture structures. for 2019 and 2018, revenues from our consolidated foreign operations were $88 million and $107 million, respectively, or approximately 2% of our total revenues in both years. over the past few years, we have strategically exited international markets, including the disposition of one hotel in mexico in 2018 and one hotel in australia in 2017. additionally, in 2018, we sold our approximate 33% interest in the european joint venture. as a result, our prospective foreign currency exchange risk will have a minimal impact on our results of operations. during 2019, upon the maturity of a foreign currency forward sale contract with a notional amount of cad25 million ($19 million), for which we received immaterial proceeds, we entered into a new foreign currency forward sale contract with a notional amount of cad25 million ($19 million) that matures in may 2020. also in 2019, we entered into two additional foreign currency forward purchase contracts, each with a notional amount of cad37.1 million ($28 million), maturing in march 2020 . a portion of these derivatives have been designated as hedges of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, while the remaining notional amount serves as a natural hedge of intercompany loans. the foreign currency exchange agreements into which we have entered strictly are to hedge foreign currency risk and are not for trading purposes. the contracts are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant other observable inputs. as of december 31, 2019, the fair value of these contracts was not material. these contracts are marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) for contracts designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, and through net income for contracts acting as a natural hedge of intercompany loans. the foreign currency forward sale contracts are valued based on the forward yield curve of the foreign currency to u.s. dollar forward exchange rate on the date of measurement. pursuant to these contracts, we will sell the foreign currency amount, as applicable, and receive the u.s. dollar amount on the forward sale date. we also evaluate counterparty credit risk when we calculate the fair value of the derivatives. also during 2019, we repaid $56 million outstanding under our credit facility, a portion of which was previously designated as a hedge of our net investments in foreign operations. 67