risk factors 16 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment. 16 table of contents risks related to our business our quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: the level of demand for our products and services, and the timing of channel partner and end-customer orders; the timing of shipments, which may depend on many factors such as inventory and logistics and our ability to ship new products on schedule and accurately forecast inventory requirements; the mix of products sold, the mix of revenue between products and services and the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of our channel partners and end-customers; seasonal buying patterns of our end-customers; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, which may be affected by both the mix of sales by our sell-in versus our sell-through channel partners, and by the extent to which we bring on new distributors; 17 table of contents the accuracy and timing of point of sale reporting by our sell-through distributors, which impacts our ability to recognize revenue; the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; changes in end-customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs; changes in the growth rate of the network security or utm markets; the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors or end-customers; deferral of orders from end-customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; decisions by potential end-customers to purchase network security solutions from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; price competition; changes in customer renewal rates for our services; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our products and services; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our key suppliers, which could disrupt our supply chain; general economic conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies; and increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our expenses are incurred and paid in currencies other than u.s. dollars. any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. this variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our revenue or operating results expectations or those of securities analysts or investors for any period. if we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. in addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue trends. accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our revenue to fall below expected levels. as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas, historically we have received a substantial portion of a quarter sales orders and generated a substantial portion of a quarter revenue during the last two weeks or last days of the quarter. if expected revenue at the end of any quarter is delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, our or our logistics partners inability to ship products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the quarter, our failure to manage inventory properly in a way to meet demand, or our inability to release new products on schedule, our revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. we have a history of losses and may not maintain profitability, and our revenue growth may not continue. we have incurred net losses in most fiscal years since our inception, including net losses of $21.8 million in fiscal 2007, $5.3 million in fiscal 2006, $14.2 million in fiscal 2005 and $59.0 million in fiscal 2004. as a result, we had an accumulated deficit of $60.0 million at december 31, 2009. although we were profitable in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, we may not be able to sustain profitability in future periods if we fail to increase revenue or deferred revenue, manage our cost structure, or are subject to unanticipated liabilities. revenue growth may slow or revenue may decline for a number of possible reasons, including slowing demand for our products or services, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, or if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. any failure by us to maintain profitability and continue our revenue growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. 18 table of contents we rely significantly on revenue from subscription and support services which may decline, and, because we recognize revenue from subscriptions and support services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. our services revenue accounted for 55.2% of our total revenue for fiscal 2009, 49.7% of our total revenue for fiscal 2008, and 47.7% of our total revenue for fiscal 2007. sales of new or renewal subscription and services contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-customers level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers spending levels. if our sales of new or renewal subscription and services contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business will suffer. in addition we recognize subscription and service revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically one year but has been as long as five years. as a result, much of the revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from subscription and services contracts entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscription or service contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter, but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our subscriptions or services is not reflected in full in our results of operations until future periods. our subscription and service revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal service contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. insufficient inventory may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, return product or take advantage of price protection (if any), or delay orders in anticipation of new products. they also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-customer demand. management of our inventory is further complicated by the significant number of different products that we sell and the fact that we sell models that must meet regulatory requirements, such as the european union restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment directive, or the eu rohs. 19 table of contents in addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our results of operations. our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage inventory. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. for example, in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2007 we had excess inventory, resulting in significant inventory write-offs. alternatively, insufficient inventory levels, which we experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-customers turn to competitors products that are readily available. if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our distribution partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on third-party channel partners to generate substantially all of our revenue. if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited, and, if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results will be harmed. substantially all of our revenue is generated through sales by our channel partners, which include distributors and resellers. we depend upon our channel partners to generate sales opportunities and manage the sales process. to the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with, and retain a sufficient number of high quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, and keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and operating results will be harmed. we provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them in selling our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. in addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services. our channel partners generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. they may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products. they may have incentives to promote our competitors products to the detriment of our own. they may cease selling our products altogether. we cannot assure you that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement partners. the loss of one or more of our significant channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter through them could harm our operating results. during fiscal 2007, 2008 and 2009, alternative technology, inc., a subsidiary of arrow electronics, inc., was our most significant channel partner, accounting for 12% of our total revenue in each of the periods. any new sales channel partner will require extensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end-customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. if we fail to manage existing sales channels, our business will be seriously harmed. if we are not successful in continuing to execute our strategy to increase our sales to larger end-customers, our results of operations may suffer. an important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of our products to large enterprises, service providers and government entities. sales to enterprises, service providers and government entities involve risks that may not be present (or that are present to a lesser extent) with sales to small-to-mid-sized entities. these risks include: increased competition from larger competitors, such as cisco systems, inc., check point software technologies ltd., mcafee, inc. and juniper networks, inc., that traditionally target enterprises, service providers and government entities and that may already have purchase commitments from those end-customers; increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end-customers in negotiating contractual arrangements with us; more stringent requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; and longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end-customer who elects not to purchase our products and services. 20 table of contents large enterprises, service providers and government entities often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases over 12 months. although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with our distributors and resellers in connection with sales to larger end-customers. due to the lengthy nature, the size and scope, and stringent requirements of these evaluations, we typically provide evaluation products to these customers. we may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without being successful in producing any sales. if we are unsuccessful in converting these evaluations into sales, we may experience an increased inventory of used products and potentially increased write-offs. in addition, product purchases by enterprises, service providers and government entities are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. finally, enterprise, service providers and government entities typically have longer implementation cycles; require greater product functionality and scalability and a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; sometimes require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. all these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. if sales expected from a large end-customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the average sales prices of our products may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits. the average sales prices for our products may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts we offer, a change in our mix of products, anticipation of the introduction of new products or promotional programs. competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or may bundle them with other products. furthermore, we anticipate that the average sales prices and gross profits for our products will decrease over product life cycles. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices and gross profits at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, the failure of our products or services to prevent a virus or security breach, or misuse of our products could harm our reputation and divert resources. because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our customers. for example, one of our high-end product models has been experiencing a defect in limited deployments. defects or vulnerabilities 21 table of contents may impede or block network traffic or cause our products or services to be vulnerable to electronic break-ins or cause them to fail to help secure networks. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. in addition, defects or errors in our fortiguard subscription updates or our fortigate appliances could result in a failure of our fortiguard services to effectively update end-customers fortigate appliances and thereby leave customers vulnerable to attacks. furthermore, our solutions may also fail to detect or prevent viruses, worms or similar threats due to a number of reasons such as the evolving nature of such threats and the continual emergence of new threats that we may fail to add to our fortiguard databases in time to protect our end-customers networks. our fortiguard or forticare data centers and networks may also experience technical failures and downtime, and may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or fail to meet the increased requirements of a growing customer base. any such technical failure, downtime, or failures in general may temporarily or permanently expose our end-customers networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. an actual or perceived security breach or infection of the network of one of our end-customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services to prevent the security breach, could adversely affect the market perception of our security products. we may not be able to correct any security flaws or vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. our products may also be misused by end-customers or third parties who obtain access to our products. for example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the internet. such use of our products for censorship could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, even if we take reasonable measures to prevent any improper shipment of our products or if our products are provided by an unauthorized third-party. any defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, or misuse of our products, could result in: expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work-around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; loss of existing or potential end-customers or channel partners; delayed or lost revenue; delay or failure to attain market acceptance; negative publicity, which will harm our reputation; and litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation. our business and operations have experienced rapid growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results will be negatively affected. we have a high volume business that has grown over the last several years. we rely heavily on information technology systems to help manage critical functions such as order processing, revenue recognition, financial forecasts and inventory and supply chain management. however, we have been slow to adopt and implement certain automated functions, like electronic data interchange, which could have a negative impact on our business. for example, a large part of our order processing relies on the manual processing of emails from our customers. combined with the fact that we may receive a majority of our orders in the last few weeks of any given quarter, a significant interruption in our email service could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased revenue for that quarter. to manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. we may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner. in addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. our productivity and the quality of our products and services may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our results of operations. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. 22 table of contents the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this form 10-k, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, valuation of inventory, warranty liabilities and accounting for income taxes. we offer retroactive price protection to certain of our major distributors, and if we fail to balance their inventory with end-customer demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we provide certain of our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. if we reduce the list price of our products, certain distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. as of december 31, 2009, we estimated that approximately $1.6 million of our products in our distributors inventory were subject to price protection. future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the levels of our major distributors inventories. if future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering and sales, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have experienced turnover in our management-level personnel. none of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel: the san francisco bay area, vancouver, canada and beijing, china. a large portion of our employee base is substantially vested in significant stock option grants, and the ability to exercise those options and sell their stock may result in a larger than normal turn-over rate. we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. 23 table of contents we are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute on our business plan, and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. the loss of services of senior management, particularly ken xie, our co-founder, president and chief executive officer, michael xie, our co-founder, vice president of engineering and chief technical officer, and ken goldman, our vice president and chief financial officer, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. in addition, key personnel may be distracted by activities unrelated to our business. the loss of the services, or distraction, of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to establish fair value for any undelivered element of a customer order, revenue relating to the entire order will be deferred and recognized over future periods. a delay in the recognition of revenue for a significant portion of our sales in a particular quarter may adversely affect our results of operations. in the course of our selling efforts, we typically enter into arrangements that require us to deliver a combination of products and services. we refer to each individual product or service as an element of the overall arrangement. these arrangements typically require us to deliver particular elements in a future period. as we discuss further in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and estimates revenue recognition , if we are unable to determine the fair value of any undelivered elements, we are required by generally accepted accounting principles, or gaap, to defer revenue from the entire arrangement rather than just the undelivered elements. if we are required to defer revenue from the entire arrangement for a significant portion of our product sales, our revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, adversely affecting our results of operations and resulting in a decline in our stock price. adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. in addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. we believe the current global economic downturn may have adversely affected our total revenue in fiscal 2009. continued weak global economic conditions, or a reduction in information technology spending even if economic conditions improve, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our distributors, reduced unit sales and lower or no growth. because we depend on several third-party manufacturers to build our products, we are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to a variety of contract manufacturing partners and original design manufacturing partners. our reliance on our third-party manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs and product supply. any manufacturing disruption by our third-party manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our business would be seriously harmed. these manufacturers fulfill our supply requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders. we have no long-term contracts or arrangements with certain of our third-party manufacturers that guarantee capacity, the continuation of particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for manufacturing services could be increased on short notice. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers would be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs which could adversely affect our gross margins. our individual product lines are generally manufactured by only one manufacturing partner. any production interruptions for any reason, such as a natural disaster, epidemic, capacity shortages, or quality problems, at one of our manufacturing partners would severely affect sales of our product lines manufactured by that manufacturing partner. 24 table of contents our proprietary fortiasic, which is the key to the performance of our appliances, is fabricated by contract manufacturers in foundries operated by umc and taiwan semiconductor manufacturing corporation, or tsmc. faraday (using umc foundry) and k-micro (using tsmc foundry) manufacture our asics on a purchase order basis, and these foundries do not guarantee any capacity and could reject orders from either faraday or k-micro or try to increase pricing. accordingly, the foundries are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and due to the long lead time that a new foundry would require, we could suffer temporary or long term inventory shortages of our fortiasic as well as increased costs. our suppliers may also prioritize orders by other companies that order higher volumes of products. if any of these suppliers materially delays its supply of asics or specific product models to us, or requires us to find an alternate supplier and we are not able to do so on a timely and reasonable basis, or if these foundries materially increase their prices for fabrication of our asics or specific product models, our business would be harmed. in addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries limits our control over environmental regulatory requirements such as the hazardous substance content of our products and therefore our ability to ensure compliance with the eu rohs and other similar laws. see if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected for information on the effects of the failure to comply with these laws. because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, we are susceptible to supply shortages or supply changes, which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers and may result in the loss of sales and customers. we and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key parts and components used in the manufacture of our products from limited sources of supply. we are therefore subject to the risk of shortages in the supply of these components and the risk that component suppliers discontinue or modify components used in our products. we have faced component shortages in the past. certain of our limited source components for particular appliances and suppliers of those components include: specific types of central processing units from intel corporation, advanced micro devices, inc., rmi corporation and via technologies, inc. and network chips from broadcom corporation, marvell technology group ltd. and intel. the introduction by component suppliers of new versions of their products, particularly if not anticipated by us or our contract manufacturers, could require us to expend significant resources to incorporate these new components into our products. in addition, if these suppliers were to discontinue production of a necessary part or component, we would be required to expend significant resources and time in locating and integrating replacement parts or components from another vendor. qualifying additional suppliers for limited source parts or components can be time-consuming and expensive. 25 table of contents our manufacturing partners have experienced increasing lead times for the purchase of components incorporated into our products. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts or components when required; financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers; infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; price increases; failure of a component to meet environmental or other regulatory requirements; failure to meet delivery obligations in a timely fashion; and failure in component quality. the occurrence of any of these would be disruptive to us and could seriously harm our business. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our distributors, resellers and end-customers. this could harm our relationships with our channel partners and end-customers and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. however, a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the united states, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a majority of our operating expenses were incurred outside the united states, are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the euro and canadian dollar. although we have begun to hedge currency exposures relating to certain balance sheet accounts, we do not currently hedge currency exposures relating to operating expenses incurred outside of the united states, but we may do so in the future. if our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we generate a majority of revenue from sales to distributors, resellers and end-customers outside of the united states, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. we market and sell our products throughout the world and have established sales offices in many parts of the world. therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. we are also subject to a number of risks typically associated with international sales and operations, including: economic or political instability in foreign markets; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; changes in regulatory requirements; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such laws and regulations; costs of complying with u.s. laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; the potential for political unrest, terrorism, hostilities or war; 26 table of contents management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. product and service sales may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. further, we may be unable to keep up-to-date with changes in government requirements as they change from time to time. failure to comply with these regulations could result in adverse affects to our business. in many foreign countries it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties, or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 27 table of contents we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. certain of our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the u.s. only with the required export license or through an export license exception, because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. if we were to fail to comply with u.s. export licensing, u.s. customs regulations, u.s. economic sanctions and other laws we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. in addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected, through reputational harm and penalties. obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. furthermore, u.s. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to u.s. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to u.s. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners, despite such precautions. any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations and penalties and in reputational harm. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting/licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers ability to implement our products in those countries. changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include the european union, or eu, rohs and the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directive as well as the implementing legislation of the eu member states. similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in china, south korea, norway and japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the united states and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban the use of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. we have incurred costs to comply with these laws, including research and development costs, costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components and costs associated with writing off noncompliant inventory. we expect to incur more of these costs in the future. with respect to the eu rohs, we and our competitors rely on an exemption for lead in network infrastructure equipment. it is possible this exemption will be revoked in the near future. if revoked, if there are other changes to these laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. the eu has also adopted the weee directive, which requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. although currently our eu international channel partners are responsible for the requirements of this directive as the importer of record in most of the european countries in which we sell our products, changes in interpretation of the regulations may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements in the future to meet in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. our failure to comply with these and future similar laws could result in reduced sales of our products, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions. 28 table of contents a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. sales to u.s. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to government entities. sales into government entities are subject to a number of risks. selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will win a sale. government demand and payment for our products and services may be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products. most of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through our distribution channel. government entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. for example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such governmental entity, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such distributor. governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors administrative processes, and, any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way. finally, for purchases by the u.s. government, the government may require certain products to be manufactured in the united states and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the u.s. government. false detection of viruses or security breaches or false identification of spam or spyware could adversely affect our business. our antivirus and our intrusion prevention services may falsely detect viruses or other threats that do not actually exist. this risk is heightened by the inclusion of a heuristics feature in our products, which attempts to identify viruses and other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies that may indicate that a particular item is a threat. when our end-customers enable the heuristics feature in our products, the risk of falsely identifying viruses and other threats significantly increases. these false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. also, our antispam and antispyware services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent antispam or spyware products. parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. in addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may reduce the adoption of our products. if our system restricts important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect end-customers systems and cause material system failures. any such false identification of important files or applications could result in negative publicity, loss of end-customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem, and costly litigation. 29 table of contents if our internal network system is compromised by computer hackers, public perception of our products and services will be harmed. we will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective network security protection. because we provide network security products, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers. although we have not experienced significant damages from unauthorized access by a third-party of our internal network, if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our internal systems it could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services. in addition, such a security breach could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide subscription and support services to our end-customers. if this happens, our revenue could decline and our business could suffer. our ability to sell our products is dependent on the quality of our technical support services, and our failure to offer high quality technical support services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. once our products are deployed within our end-customers networks, our end-customers depend on our technical support services, as well as the support of our channel partners, to resolve any issues relating to our products. if we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. many enterprise, service provider and government entity end-customers require higher levels of support than smaller end-customers. if we fail to meet the requirements of the larger end-customers, it may be more difficult to execute on our strategy to increase our penetration with larger end-customers. as a result, our failure to maintain high quality support services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by: our earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of or lapses in the research and development tax credit laws; transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; tax effects of nondeductible compensation; tax costs related to intercompany realignments; changes in accounting principles; or changes in tax laws and regulations including possible changes in the united states to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in accounting standards codification (asc) 740-10 ( formerly referred to as financial accounting standards board (fasb) interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb no. 109 (fin 48) ). in addition, asc 740-10 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. although we released our entire valuation allowance in the year ended december 31, 2009, we may in the future be required to establish a new valuation allowance. we will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. 30 table of contents forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. if the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimated, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. the taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. in addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. if tax authorities challenge the relative mix of u.s. and international income, our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected. while we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 table of contents our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. in order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies and intellectual property, such as patents. if we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product, technology or intellectual property into our existing business and operations. we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, intellectual property or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues. in addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may not be accretive to earnings and may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in write-offs that could be substantial. for example, as discussed further in notes 5 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements, in the past we have written off certain assets in connection with our purchases of assets from certain companies. further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating acquired businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property will significantly divert management time and resources. our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. our products are very complex and, despite testing prior to their release, have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. for example, one of our high-end product models has been experiencing a defect in limited deployments. product errors have affected the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our end-customers willingness to buy products from us, and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant end-customers, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. as a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products, and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. the occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the united states or other countries. the sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. we maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. in addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management time and other resources. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, or a significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. in addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors or logistics providers ability to perform services such as manufacturing products on a timely basis and assisting with shipments on a timely basis. for example, our primary international logistics provider is located in taiwan which is an area known for typhoons. in the event our or our service providers information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. in addition, acts of terrorism could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners, or end-customers or the economy as a whole. given our typical concentration of sales at each quarter end, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. all of the aforementioned risks may be augmented if the disaster recovery plans for us and our suppliers prove to be inadequate. to the extent that any of the above results in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the delay in the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 32 table of contents risks related to our industry the network security market is rapidly evolving and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing end-customer needs, our competitive position and prospects will be harmed. the network security market is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. moreover, many of our end-customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly complex enterprise networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. in addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, while minimizing the impact on network performance. additionally, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new hardware architectures and asics that involve complex, expensive and time consuming research and development processes. although the market expects rapid introduction of new products or product enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain and there can be long time periods between releases and availability of new products. we have in the past and may in the future experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and services and fail to meet previously announced timetables for such availability. for example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we released a new model within our fortigate product line and, after its initial release, we detected errors in the product that required us to redesign certain aspects of the product which delayed the availability of the product for one quarter and delayed our recognition of revenue from large orders that included such product until the following quarter when the product became available. if we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our end-customers by developing and releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and services or enhancements that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. our url database for our web filtering service may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth of urls and may not categorize websites in accordance with our end-customers expectations. the success of our web filtering service depends on the breadth and accuracy of our url database. although our url database currently catalogs millions of unique urls, it contains only a portion of the urls for all of the websites that are available on the internet. in addition, the total number of urls and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth to continue in the future. accordingly, we must identify and categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate. our database and technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of websites, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and 33 table of contents other hazards associated with the internet. further, the ongoing evolution of the internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our web filtering function. any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the internet will impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn will harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our web filtering service may not be successful in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our end-customers expectations. we rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize websites and software applications in our proprietary databases. our end-customers may not agree with our determinations that particular urls should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. in addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place material that is objectionable or that presents a security risk in categories that are generally unrestricted by our users internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. conversely, we may miscategorize websites such that access is denied to websites containing information that is important or valuable to our customers. any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. any failure to effectively categorize and filter websites according to our end-customers and channel partners expectations will impair the growth of our business. if our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. we spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new products and enhanced versions of our existing products to incorporate additional features, improved functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. when we develop a new product or an enhanced version of an existing product, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing our new products or enhancements to the market; failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; inability to interoperate effectively with the networks or applications of our prospective end-customers; inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; defects, errors or failures; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay it purchases; easing of regulatory requirements around security; and reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. unless we develop better market awareness of our company and our products, our revenue may not continue to grow. we are a relatively new entrant in the network security market and we believe that we have not yet established sufficient market awareness of our participation in that market. market awareness of our capabilities and products is essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large enterprise, service provider and government entities markets. if our marketing programs are not successful in creating market awareness of our company and products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. 34 table of contents demand for unified threat management products may be limited by market perception that utm products are inferior to network security solutions from multiple vendors. sales of most of our products depend on increased demand for utm products. if the utm market fails to grow as we anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. target customers may view utm all-in-one solutions as inferior to security solutions from multiple vendors because of, among other things, their perception that utm products provide security functions from only a single vendor and do not allow users to choose best-of-breed defenses from among the wide range of dedicated security applications available. target customers might also perceive that, by combining multiple security functions into a single platform, utm solutions create a single point of failure in their networks, which means that an error, vulnerability or failure of the utm product may place the entire network at risk. in addition, the market perception that utm solutions may be suitable only for small and medium sized businesses because utm lacks the performance capabilities and functionality of other solutions may harm our sales to large enterprise, service provider, and government entity end-customers. if the foregoing concerns and perceptions become prevalent, even if there is no factual basis for these concerns and perceptions, or if other issues arise with the utm market in general, demand for utm products could be severely limited, which would limit our growth and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. further a successful and publicized targeted attack against us or another well known utm vendor exposing a single point of failure could significantly increase these concerns and perceptions and may harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in our market, especially from larger, better-known companies, and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. the market for network security products is intensely competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. our competitors include networking companies such as cisco systems, inc. and juniper networks, inc., security vendors such as check point software technologies ltd., mcafee, inc., and sonicwall, inc., and other point solution security vendors. 35 table of contents many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as: greater name recognition and longer operating histories; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers; access to larger customer bases; greater customer support resources; greater resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus, are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets, and will therefore not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of network security threat are often able to deliver these specialized network security products to the market more quickly than we can. some of our smaller competitors are using third-party chips designed to accelerate performance. conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. in addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources, such as juniper acquisition of netscreen technologies, inc., mcafee acquisition of secure computing corporation and check point acquisition of nokia security appliance business. as a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. due to budget constraints or economic downturns, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing network security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with our solutions. these competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. if functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our appliances to their network, which would have an adverse effect on our business. large, well-established providers of networking equipment such as cisco systems, inc. and juniper networks, inc. offer, and may continue to introduce, network security features that compete with our products, either in stand-alone security products or as additional features in their network infrastructure products. the inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our security solutions in networking products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. furthermore, even if the functionality offered by network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor such as us. many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of networking products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from other vendors such as us. in addition, an organization existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only network security products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. if organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 36 table of contents risks related to intellectual property our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our products without compensating us. we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. we purchased most of our issued u.s. patents and many of our pending u.s. patent applications from other entities. valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or products. any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. patent applications in the united states are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. in addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the united states may bring into question the validity of certain software patents. as a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or effectively enforce our issued patents. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. policing unauthorized use of our technology or products is difficult. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the united states. from time-to-time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and products protected other than by patent rights), we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. 37 table of contents our products contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including the gnu public license (gpl), the gnu lesser public license (lgpl), the bsd license, the apache license and others. from time-to-time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants intellectual property rights. we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by united states courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, to re-engineer our products, or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network security industry. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us. they may also assert such claims against our end-customers or channel partners whom we typically indemnify against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. any claim of infringement by a third-party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. in addition, future litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 38 table of contents we have been involved in patent disputes in the past, are currently involved in several patent disputes, and likely will be involved in additional disputes in the future. in may 2004, trend micro incorporated filed a complaint against us alleging that we infringed a trend micro patent related to antivirus software. the international trade commission, or itc, subsequently instituted an investigation which resulted in an exclusion order and a cease and desist order prohibiting us from selling a broad array of our products in the united states. in january 2006, we settled the lawsuit with trend micro, and subsequently the itc terminated its action and rescinded the orders. pursuant to the settlement and license agreement, we initially paid trend micro $15.0 million. the settlement and license agreement provides for additional quarterly royalty payments, not expected to exceed 1% of our total revenue each quarter, through 2015. in november 2008, we filed a complaint against trend micro in the united states district court for the northern district of california alleging, among other claims, that the patents that are the basis for the ongoing royalty payments are invalid and consequently that we have no contractual obligation to pay the royalties. trend micro moved to dismiss the case, and, in june 2009, the court dismissed the case without prejudice on procedural grounds, and we appealed the dismissal in july 2009. based on the dispute, we have ceased paying royalties under the settlement and license agreement. in august 2009, trend micro filed a complaint against us in the superior court of the state of california for santa clara county alleging breach of contract and seeking a declaratory judgment that we are obligated to make certain royalty payments to trend micro. in december 2009, we withdrew our appeal of the june 2009 dismissal by the united states district court for the northern district of california and filed a new complaint against trend micro in the united states district court for the northern district of california alleging, among other claims, that the patents that are the basis for the ongoing royalty payments are invalid and consequently that we have no contractual obligation to pay the royalties. in february 2010, trend micro filed demurrers in the state superior court action regarding fortinet affirmative defenses that fortinet has no obligation to pay royalties because the trend micro patents are invalid or unenforceable. in march 2010, trend micro filed a motion to dismiss our new complaint that we filed in the united states district court for the northern district of california. because this dispute is at an early stage, it is not possible to predict the outcome. an adverse outcome in this dispute could result in accelerated royalty payments and additional damages. in january 2009, we filed a complaint against palo alto networks, inc. in the united states district court for the northern district of california alleging, among other claims, patent infringement. on september 4, 2009, palo alto networks filed a counterclaim against us alleging patent infringement. in may 2009, enhanced security research, llc, or esr, a non-practicing entity, filed a complaint in the united states district court for the district of delaware alleging patent infringement by us and other defendants. on august 3, 2009, esr filed a substantially similar complaint against us in the same court alleging infringement of the same patents. the palo alto networks and esr cases are currently at an early stage of the litigation process. in september 2009, deep nines, inc. filed a complaint against us in the united states district court for the eastern district of texas alleging that at least certain of our products infringe certain of their patents. deep nines has not yet served us with its complaint, and the deadline for service has been extended by the court until march 8, 2010. if we are unsuccessful in defending against any of palo alto networks , esr or deep nines claims, our operating results and financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. for example, we may be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling certain of our products. several other non-practicing patent holding companies have sent us letters proposing that we license certain of their patents, and, given this and the proliferation of lawsuits in our industry and other similar industries by both non-practicing entities and operating entities, we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. the cost to defend such lawsuits and any adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on the availability of third-party licenses. many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. 39 table of contents risks related to ownership of our common stock as a public company, we are subject to compliance initiatives that will require substantial time from our management and result in significantly increased costs that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as well as other rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq stock market, impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. we expect these and other similar rules and regulations to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs. in addition there are proposed corporate governance laws and regulations under consideration that may further increase compliance costs if established as law. if compliance with these various legal and regulatory requirements diverts our management attention from other business concerns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. in particular, for the fiscal year ending december 31, 2010, we must perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. we are in the very early stages of the process of evaluating and documenting processes in order to comply with this requirement. we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. during the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. we have in the past identified material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, and, although we believe we have remediated the material weaknesses, certain significant deficiencies remain, and we cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses and additional significant deficiencies in our internal controls in the future. if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline. if securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. if we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this periodic report, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. future sales of shares of our common stock by stockholders could depress the price of our common stock. approximately 52,680,972 shares of our common stock may be sold by stockholders upon the expiration of lock-up agreements in may 2010. this is in addition to stock options that will be vested in may 2010 and eligible for exercise and sale at the expiration of the lock-up agreements. if stockholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after the expiration of the lock-up and other legal restrictions on resale lapse, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. 40 table of contents our failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. we expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. after that, we may need to raise additional funds, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. if we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per-share value of our common stock could decline. furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of debt would have priority over the holders of common stock and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, and take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the stockholders and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. if we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: develop or enhance our products and services; continue to expand our sales and marketing and research and development organizations; acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; expand operations, in the united states or internationally; hire, train and retain employees; or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. our failure to do any of these things could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 41 table of contents concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. as of march 1, 2010, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 41.4% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, these stockholders are able to exercise a significant level of control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. this control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in management and will make the approval of certain transactions difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. our corporate governance documents include provisions: creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate fluctuation risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, money market funds, government and corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit. the risk associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio. a 10% decrease in interest rates in 2009, 2008 and 2007 would have resulted in a decrease in our interest income of approximately $0.2 million, $0.3 million and $0.4 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2009, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were in money market funds, commercial paper, corporate debt securities and u.s. government debt securities. foreign currency exchange risk our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. however, a substantial portion of our operating expenses incurred outside the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the canadian dollar and euro. additionally, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may cause us to recognize transaction gains and losses in our consolidated statements of operations. we recognized other income (expense), net of $0.2 million in fiscal 2009 due to foreign currency transaction gains. 76 table of contents we recently began to use foreign exchange forward contracts to partially mitigate the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency rates on certain balance sheet accounts. we do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. these contracts typically have maturities between one and two months, and we record gains and losses from these instruments in other income (expense), net. inflation risk our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are not affected significantly by inflation because they are short-term. we believe the impact of inflation on replacement costs of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. the rate of inflation, however, affects our cost of revenue and expenses, such as those for employee compensation, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of products and services offered by us. 77 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of the following risks materializ e, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment. risks related to our business our quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including: &bull; the level of demand for our products and services; &bull; the timing of channel partner and end-customer orders; 9 table of contents &bull; the timing of shipments, which may depend on many factors such as inventory levels and logistics, our ability to ship new products on schedule and accurately forecast inventory requirements, and potential delays in the manufacturing process; &bull; the mix of products sold, the mix of revenue between products and services and the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; &bull; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of our channel partners and end-customers; &bull; seasonal buying patterns of our end-customers; &bull; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, which may be affected by both the mix of sales by our &ldquo;sell-in&rdquo; versus our &ldquo;sell-through&rdquo; channel partners, and by the extent to which we bring on new distributors; &bull; &n bsp; the accuracy and timing of point of sale reporting by our sell-through distributors, which impacts our ability to recognize revenue; &bull; the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; &bull; changes in end-customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs; &bull; changes in the growth rate of the network security or utm markets; &bull; the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors or end-customers; &bull; deferral of orders from end-customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; &bull; decisions by potential end-customers to purchase network security solutions from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; &bull; price competition; &bull; changes in customer renewal rates for our services; &bull; changes in the length of services contracts sold; &bull; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our products and services; &bull; any disruption in our channel or termination of our relationship with important channel partners; &bull; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our key suppliers, which could disrupt our supply chain; &bull; general economic conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets; &bull; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies; and &bull; increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our expenses are incurred and paid in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial and other operating results, including fluctuations in our key metrics. this variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. if we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly law suits, including securities class action suits. in addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue trends. accordingly, in the event of 10 table of contents revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our revenue to fall below expected levels. as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas, historically we have received a substantial portion of a quarter's sales orders and generated a substantial portion of a quarter's revenue during the last two weeks or last days of the quarter. if expected revenue at the end of any quarter is delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, our or our logistics partners' inability to ship products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the quarter, our failure to manage inventory to meet demand, our inability to release new products on schedule, any failure of our systems related to order review and processing, or any delays in shipments based on trade compliance requirements, our revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. we rely significantly on revenue from subscription and support services which may decline, and, because we recognize revenue from subscriptions and support services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. services revenue accounts for a significant portion of our revenue, comprising 53.0% of total revenue for fiscal 2010 , 55.2% of total revenue for fiscal 2009 , and 49.7% of total revenue for fiscal 2008. sales of new or renewal subscription and services contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers' spending levels. if our sales of new or renewal subscription and services contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business will suffer. in addition we recognize subscription and service revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically one year but has been as long as five years. as a result, much of the revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from subscript ion and services contracts entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscription or service contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter, but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our subscriptions or services is not reflected in full in our results of operations until future periods. our subscription and service revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal service contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. furthermore increases in the average term of services contracts would result in revenue for services contracts being recognized over longer periods of time. managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. insufficient inventory may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, return product or take advantage of price protection (if any), or delay orders in anticipation of new products. they also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-customer demand. furthermore if th e time required to manufacture certain products or ship products increases for any reason, this could result in inventory shortfalls. management of our inventory is further complicated by the significant number of different products and models that we sell. in addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our results of operations. our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage inventory. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and cust omer requirements. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. alternatively, insufficient inventory levels, which we experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-customers turn to competitors' products that are readily available. if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our distribution partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on third-party channel partners to generate substantially all of our revenue. if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our p roducts and services will be limited, and, if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results will be harmed. substantially all of our revenue is generated through sales by our channel partners, which include distributors and 11 table of contents resellers. we depend upon our channel partners to generate sales opportunities and manage the sales process. to the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with, and retain a sufficient number of high quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, and keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and operating results will be harmed. the termination of our relationship with any significant channel partner may also adversely impact our sales and operating results. we provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them in selling our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. in addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services. our channel partners generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. they may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products. they may have incentives to promote our competitors' products to the detriment of our own. they may cease selling our products altogether. we cannot assure you that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement partners. the loss of one or more of our significant channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter through them could harm our operating results. in addition, any new sales channel partner will require extensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. our channel p artner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end-customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. if we fail to manage existing sales channels, our business will be seriously harmed. if we are not successful in continuing to execute our strategy to increase our sales to larger end-customers, our results of operations may suffer. an important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of our products to large enterprises, service providers and government entities. sales to enterprises, service providers and government entities involve risks that may not be present (or that are present to a lesser extent) with sales to small-to-mid-sized entities. these risks include: &bull; increased competition from larger competitors, such as cisco systems, inc., check point software technologies ltd., mcafee, inc. ( pending acquisition by intel, inc.), and juniper networks, inc., that traditionally target enterprises, service providers and government entities and that may already have purchase commitments from those end-customers; &bull; increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end-customers in negotiating contractual arrangements with us; &bull; more stringent requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; and &bull; longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end-customer who elects not to purchase our products and services. large enterprises, service providers and government entities often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases over 12 months. although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with our distributors and resellers in connection with sales to larger end-customers. due to the lengthy nature, the size and scope, and stringent requirements of these evaluations, we typically provide evaluation products to these customers. we may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without being successful in producing any sales. if we are unsuccessful in converting these evaluations into sales, we may experience an increased inventory of used products and potentially increased write-offs. in addition, product purchases by enterprises, service providers and government entities are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. finally, enterprise, service providers and government entities typically have longer implementation cycles; require greater product functionality and scalability and a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; sometimes require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect greater payment flexibilit y from vendors. all these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. if sales expected from a large end-customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the average sales prices of our products may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and adversely impact our financial results and the trading price of our common stock. the average sales prices for our products may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, 12 table of contents discounts we offer, a change in our mix of products, anticipation of the introduction of new products or promotional programs. competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or may bundle them with other products. additionally, although we price our products and services worldwide in u.s. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions may negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions. furthermore, we anticipate that the average sales prices and gross profits for our products will decrease over product life cycles. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices and gross profits at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, the failure of our products or services to prevent a virus or security breach, or misuse of our products could harm our reputation and divert resources. because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our customers. defects or vulnerabilities may impede or block network traffic or cause our products or services to be vulnerable to electronic break-ins or cause them to fail to help secure networks. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change fr equently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. in addition, defects or errors in our fortiguard subscription updates or our fortigate appliances could result in a failure of our fortiguard services to effectively update end-customers' fortigate appliances and thereby leave customers vulnerable to attacks. furthermore, our solutions may also fail to detect or prevent viruses, worms or similar threats due to a number of reasons such as the evolving nature of such threats and the continual emergence of new threats that we may fail to add to our fortiguard databases in time to protect our end-customers' networks. our fortiguard or forticare data centers and networks may also experience technical failures and downtime, and may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or fail to meet the increased requirements of a growing customer base. any such technical failure, downtime, or failures in general may temporarily or permanently expose our end-customers' networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. an actual or perceived security breach or infection of the network of one of our end-customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services to prevent the security breach, could adversely affect the market's perception of our security products. we may not be able to correct any security flaws or vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. our products may also be misused by end-customers or third parties who obtain access to our products. for example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the internet. such use of our products for censorship could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, even if we take reasonable measures to prevent any improper shipment of our products or if our products are provided by an unauthorized third-party. any defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, or misuse of our products, could result in: &bull; expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work-around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; &bull; loss of existing or potential end-customers or channel partners; &bull; delayed or lost revenue; &bull; delay or failure to attain market acceptance; &bull; negative publicity, which will harm our reputation; and &bull; litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation. our business and operations have experienced rapid growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results will be negatively affected. we have a high volume business that has grown over the last several years. we rely heavily on information technology systems to help manage critical functions such as order processing, revenue recognition, financial forecasts, inventory and supply chain management and trade compliance reviews. however, we have been slow to adopt and implement certain automated functions, like electronic data interchange, which could have a negative impact on our business. for example, a large part of our order processing relies on the manual processing of emails internally and from our customers. combined with the fact that we may receive a majority of our orders in the last few weeks of any given quarter, a significant interruption in our 13 table of contents email service or other systems could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased revenue for that quarter. to manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. we may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner. in addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. our productivity and the quality of our products and services may be a dversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our results of operations. we have a history of losses and may not maintain profitability, and our revenue growth may not continue. we have incurred net losses in most fiscal years since our inception, including ne t losses of $21.8 million in fiscal 2007, $5.3 million in fiscal 2006, $14.2 million in fiscal 2005 and $59.0 million in fiscal 2004. as a result, we had an accumulated deficit of $18.7 million at december 31, 2010 . although we were profitable in fiscal 2008, 2009 and 2010 , we may not be able to sustain profitability in future periods if we fail to increase revenue or deferred revenue, manage our cost structure, or are subject to unanticipated liabilities. revenue growth may slow or revenue may decline for a number of possible reasons, including slowing demand for our products or services, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, or if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. any failure by us to maintain profitability and continue our revenue growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in &ldquo;management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&rdquo; in this form 10-k, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. significant as sumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, valuation of inventory, warranty liabilities, and accounting for income taxes. we offer retroactive price protection to certain of our major distributors, and if we fail to balance their inventory with end-customer demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we provide certain of our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. if we reduce the list price of our products, certain distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the levels of our major distributors' inventories. if future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering and sales, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have experienced turnover in our management-level personnel. none of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in the locations where we have a substant ial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel: the san francisco bay area, vancouver, canada and beijing, china. a large portion of our employee base is substantially vested in significant stock option grants, and the ability to exercise those options and sell their stock may result in a larger than normal 14 table of contents turnover rate. we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our curre nt or future needs. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. we are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute o n our business plan, and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. the loss of services of senior management, particularly ken xie, our co-founder, president and chief executive officer, michael xie, our co-founder, vice president of engineering and chief technical officer, and ken goldman, our vice president and chief financial officer, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. in addition, key personnel may be distracted by activities unrelated to our business. the loss of the services, or distraction, of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. adverse economic conditions or red uced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. in addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. weak global economic conditions, weak economic conditions in certain geographies, or a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macro-economic conditions, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our distributors, reduced unit sales and lower or no growth. because we depend on several third-party manufacturers to build our products, we are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to a variety of contract manufacturing partners and original design manufacturing partners. our reliance on our third-party manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs and product supply and timing. any manufacturing disruption by our third-party manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, increased manufacturing lead-times, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our business would be seriously harmed. &nbsp ; these manufacturers fulfill our supply requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders. we have no long-term contracts or arrangements with certain of our third-party manufacturers that guarantee capacity, the continuation of particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for manufacturing services could be increased on short notice. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers would be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs which could adversely affect our gross margins. our individual product lines are generally manufactured by only one manufacturing partner. any production interruptions for any reason, such as a natural disaster, epidemic, capacity shortages, or quality problems, at one of our manufacturing partners would severely affect sales of our product lines manufactured by that manufacturing partner. our proprietary fortiasic, which is the key to the performance of our appliances, is fabricated by contract manufacturers in foundries operated by umc and taiwan semiconductor manufacturing corporation, or tsmc. faraday (using umc's foundry) and k-micro (using tsmc's foundry) manufacture our asics on a purchase order basis, and these foundries do not guarantee any capacity and could reject orders from either faraday or k-micro or try to increase pricing. accordingly, the foundries are not obligated to continue to fulfill our suppl y requirements, and due to the long lead time that a new foundry would require, we could suffer temporary or long term inventory shortages of our fortiasic as well as increased costs. our suppliers may also prioritize orders by other companies that order higher volumes of products. if any of these suppliers materially delays its supply of asics or specific product models to us, or requires us to find an alternate supplier and we are not able to do so on a timely and reasonable basis, or if these foundries materially increase their prices for fabrication of our asics or specific product models, our business would be harmed. 15 table of contents in addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries limits our control over environmental regulatory requirements such as the hazardous substance content of our products and therefore our ability to ensure compliance with the eu rohs and other similar laws. see &ldquo;if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected&rdquo; for information on the effects of the failure to comply with these laws. because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, we are susceptible to supply shortages or supply changes, which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers and may result in the loss of sales and customers. we and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key parts and components used in the manufacture of our products from limited sources of supply. we are therefore subject to the risk of shortages in the supply of these components and the risk that component suppliers discontinue or modify components used in our products. we have faced component shortages in the past. certain of our limited so urce components for particular appliances and suppliers of those components include: specific types of central processing units from intel corporation, advanced micro devices, inc., rmi corporation and via technologies, inc. and network chips from broadcom corporation, marvell technology group ltd. and intel. the introduction by component suppliers of new versions of their products, particularly if not anticipated by us or our contract manufacturers, could require us to expend significant resources to incorporate these new components into our products. in addition, if these suppliers were to discontinue production of a necessary part or component, we would be required to expend significant resources and time in locating and integrating replacement parts or components from another vendor. qualifying additional suppliers for limited source parts or components can be time-consuming and expensive. our manufacturing partners have experienced increasing lead times for the purchase of components incorporated into our products. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: &bull; a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts or components when required; &bull; financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers; &bull; infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; &bull; price increases; &bull; failure of a component to meet environmental or other regulatory requirements; &bull; failure to meet delivery obliga tions in a timely fashion; and &bull; failure in component quality. the occurrence of any of these would be disruptive to us and could seriously harm our business. any interrupti on or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our distributors, resellers and end-customers. this could harm our relationships with our channel partners and end-customers and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. however, a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the united states, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a majority of our operating expenses are incurred outside the united states, are denominated in foreign currencies, and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the euro and canadian dollar. although we have been hedging currency exposures relating to certain balance sheet accounts and have recently entered into cashflow hedges relating to certain operating expenses incurred outside of the united states, if we stop hedging against any of these risks or if our attempts to hedge against these currency exposures are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 16 table of contents we generate a majority of revenue from sales to distributors, resellers and end-customers outside of the united states, and we are therefor e subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. we market and sell our products throughout the world and have established sales offices in many parts of the world. therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. we are also subject to a number of risks typically associated with international sales and operations, including: &bull; economic or political instability in foreign markets; &bull; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; &bull; changes in regulatory requirements; &bull; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; &bull; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; &bull; costs of compliance with foreign policies, laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such policies, laws and regulations; &bull; costs of comp lying with u.s. laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, and economic sanctions; &bull; other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; &bull; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; &bull; the potential for political unrest, terrorism, hostilities or war; &bull; management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion;&n bsp;and &bull; multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. product and service sales may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. furt her, we may be unable to keep up-to-date with changes in government requirements as they change from time to time. failure to comply with these regulations could result in adverse affects to our business. in many foreign countries it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties, or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. certain of our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the u.s. only with the required export license or through an export license exception, because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. if we were to fail to comply with u.s. export licensing, u.s. customs regulations, u.s. economic sanctions and other laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. in addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected, through reputational harm and penalties. obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. 17 table of contents furthermore, u.s. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to u.s. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to u.s. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners, despite such precautions. any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations and penalties and in reputational harm. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting/licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. chang es in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include the european union, or eu, rohs and the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directive as well as the implementing legislation of the eu member states. simila r laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in china, south korea, norway and japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the united states and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban the use of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. we have incurred costs to comply with these laws, including research and development costs, costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components and costs associated with writing off noncompliant inventory. we expect to incur more of these costs in the future. with respect to the eu rohs, we and our competitors rely on an exem ption for lead in network infrastructure equipment. it is possible this exemption will be revoked in the near future. if revoked, if there are other changes to these laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. the eu has also adopted the weee directive, which requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. although currently our eu international channel partners are responsible for the requirements of this directive as the importer of recor d in most of the european countries in which we sell our products, changes in interpretation of the regulations may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements in the future to meet in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. our failure to comply with these and future environmental rules and regulations could result in reduced sales of our products, increased costs, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions. a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. sales to u.s. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to government entities. sales into government entities are subject to a number of risks. selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will win a sale. government demand and payment for our products and services may be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reducti ons or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products. most of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through our distribution channel. government entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. for example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such governmental entity, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such distributor. governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors' 18 table of contents administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way. finally, for purchases by the u.s. government, the government may require certain products to be manufactured in the united states and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the u.s. government. false detection of viruses or security breaches or false identification of spam or spyware could adversely affect our business. our antivirus and our intrusion prevention services may falsely detect viruses or other threats that do not actually exist. this risk is heightened by the inclusion of a &ldquo;heuristics&rdquo; feature in our products, which attempts to identify viruses and other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies that may indicate that a particular item is a threat. when our end-customers enable the heuristics feature in our products, the risk of false ly identifying viruses and other threats significantly increases. these false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. also, our antispam and antispyware services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent antispam or spyware products. parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. in addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may reduce the adoption of our products. if our system restricts important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this c ould adversely affect end-customers' systems and cause material system failures. any such false identification of important files or applications could result in negative publicity, loss of end-customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem, and costly litigation. if our internal network system is compromised by computer hackers, public perception of our products and services will be harmed. we will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective network security protection. bec ause we provide network security products, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers. although we have not experienced significant damages from unauthorized access by a third-party of our internal network, if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our internal systems it could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services. in addition, such a security breach could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide subscription and support services to our end-customers. if this happens, our revenue could decline and our business could suffer. our ability to sell our products is dependent on the quality of our technical support services, and our failure to offer high quality technical support services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. once our products are deployed within our end-customers' networks, our end-customers depend on our technical support services, as well as the support of our channel partners, to resolve any issues relating to our products. if we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. many enterprise, service provider and government entity end-custome rs require higher levels of support than smaller end-customers. if we fail to meet the requirements of the larger end-customers, it may be more difficult to execute on our strategy to increase our penetration with larger end-customers. as a result, our failure to maintain high quality support services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: &bull; earnings being lower than anticipa ted in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; 19 table of contents &bull; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; &bull; expiration of, or lapses in the research and development tax credit laws; &bull; transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development and legal structure; &bull; an increase in non-deductible expenses for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; &bull; tax costs related to intercompany realignments; &bull; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax provision for the period in which the settlement take place; &bull; a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings; &bull; changes in accounting principles; or &bull; changes in tax laws and regulations including possible changes in the united states to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules, or changes to the united states income tax rate, which would necessitate a revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in asc 740-10 ( formerly referred to as statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes-an interpretation of sfas no. 109 (fin 48) ). in addition, asc 740-10 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. although we released our entire valuation allowance in fiscal 2009, we may in the future be required to establish a new valuation allowance. we will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. we are currently under audit by the canada revenue agency for fiscal years 2006-2009 associated with our international transactions. the california franchise tax board has notified us of their intent to examine our fiscal 2008 and 2009 california tax returns. the scope of the california franchise tax board examinations is unclear at this time. if the ultimate determination of income taxes assessed under the current canadian or california audits or under audits being conducted, or to be conducted, in any of the ot her tax jurisdictions in which we operate results in an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year comb ines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. if the mix of profits and 20 table of contents losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimated, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. the taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. in addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. if tax authorities challenge the relative mix of u.s. and international income, our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected. while we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. in order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies and intellectual property, such as patents. if we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product, technology or intellectual property into our existing business and operations. we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, intellectual property or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with intellectual property, product quality or p roduct architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues. in addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may not be accretive to earnings and may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in write-offs that could be substantial. further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating acquired businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property will significantly divert management time and resources. our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. our products are very complex and, despite testing prior to their release, have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. for example, one of our high-end product models has been experiencing a defect in limited deployments. product errors have affected the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our end-customers' willingness to buy products from us, and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the produc ts, cause us to lose significant end-customers, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. as a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products, and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. the occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the united states or other countries. the sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. we maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. in addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management's time and other resources. 21 table of contents our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, a flood, or significant power outage could have a mater ial adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. in addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors or logistics providers' ability to perform services such as manufacturing products on a timely basis and assisting with shipments on a timely basis. for example, our primary international logistics provider is located in taiwan which is an area known for typhoons. in the event our or our service providers' information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. in addition, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners, or end-customers or the economy as a whole. given our typical concentration of sales at each quarter end, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. all of the aforementioned risks may be augmented if the disaster recovery plans for us and our suppliers prove to be inadequate. to the extent that any of the above results in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the delay in the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. risks related to our industry the network security market is rapidly evolving and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing end-customer needs, our competitive position and prospects will be harmed. the network security market is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. moreover, many of our end-customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly co mplex enterprise networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. in addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, while minimizing the impact on network performance. additionally, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new hardware architectures and asics that involve complex, expensive and time consuming research and development processes. although the market expects rapid introduction of new products or product enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain and there can be long time periods between releases and availability of new products. we have in the past and may in the future experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and services and fail to meet previously announced timetables for such availability. for example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we released a new model within our fortigate product line and, after its initial release, we detected errors in the product that required us to redesign certain aspects of the product which delayed the availability of the product for one quarter and delayed our recognition of revenue from large orders that included such product until the following quarter when the product became available. if we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our end-customers by developing and releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and services or enhancements that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. our url database for our web filtering service may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth of urls and may not categorize websites in accordance with our end-customers' expectations. the success of our web filtering service depends on the breadth and accuracy of our url database. although our url database currently catalogs millions of unique urls, it contains only a portion of the urls for all of the websites that are available on the internet. in addition, the total number of urls and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth to continu e in the future. accordingly, we must identify and categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate. our database and technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of websites, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the internet. further, the ongoing evolution of the internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our web filtering function. any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the internet will impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn will harm our business, 22 table of contents financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our web filtering service may not be successful in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our end-customers' expectations. we rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize websites and software applications in our proprietary databases. our end-customers may not agree with our determinations that particular urls should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. in addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place material that is objectionable or that presents a security risk in categories that are generally unrestricted by our users' internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. conversely, we may miscategorize websites such that access is denied to websites containing information that is important or valuable to our customers. any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. any failure to effectively categorize and filter websites according to our end-customers' and channel partners' expectations will impair the growth of our business. if our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. we spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new products and enhanced versions of our existing products to incorporate additional features, improved functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers' rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. when we develop a new product or an enhanced version of an existing product, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. therefore, w hen we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: &bull; delays in releasing our new products or enhancements to the market; &bull; failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; &bull; failure of our sales force and partners to focus on selling new products; &bull; inability to interoperate effectively with the networks or applications of our prospective end-customers; &bull; inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; &bull; defects, errors or failures; &bull; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; &bull; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; &bull; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay it purchases; &bull; easing of regulatory requirements around security; and &bull; reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute b ecause of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. unless we continue to develop better market awareness of our company and our products, our revenue may not continue to grow. we are a relatively new entrant in the network security market and we believe that we have not yet established sufficient market awareness of our participation in that market. market awareness of our capabilities and products is esse ntial to 23 table of contents our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large enterprise, service provider and government entities markets. if our marketing programs are not successful in creating market awareness of our company and products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. demand for unified threat management products may be limited by market perception that utm products are inferior to network security solutions from multiple vendors. sales of most of our products depend on increased demand for utm products. if the utm market fails to grow as we anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. target customers may view utm &ldquo;all-in-one&rdquo; solutions as inferior to security solutions from multiple vendors because of, among other things, their perception that utm products provide security functions from onl y a single vendor and do not allow users to choose &ldquo;best-of-breed&rdquo; defenses from among the wide range of dedicated security applications available. target customers might also perceive that, by combining multiple security functions into a single platform, utm solutions create a &ldquo;single point of failure&rdquo; in their networks, which means that an error, vulnerability or failure of the utm product may place the entire network at risk. in addition, the market perception that utm solutions may be suitable only for small and medium sized businesses because utm lacks the performance capabilities and functionality of other solutions may harm our sales to large enterprise, service provider, and government entity end-customers. if the foregoing concerns and perceptions become prevalent, even if there is no factual basis for these concerns and perceptions, or if other issues arise with the utm market in general, demand for utm products could be severely limited, which would limit our growth and har m our business, financial condition and results of operations. further a successful and publicized targeted attack against us or another well known utm vendor exposing a &ldquo;single point of failure&rdquo; could significantly increase these concerns and perceptions and may harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in our market, especially from larger, better-known companies, and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. the market for network security products is intensely competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. our competitors include networking companies such as cisco systems, inc. and juniper networks, inc., security vendors such as check point software technologies ltd., mcafee, inc. (pending acquisition by intel, inc.), and sonicwall, inc. (acquired by thoma bravo), and other point solution security vendors. many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as: &bull; greater name recognition and longer operating histories; &bull; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; &bull; broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers; &bull; access to larger customer bases; &bull; greater customer support resources; &bull; greater resources to make acquisitions; &bull; lower labor and development costs; and &bull; substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and leverage their relationships based on other p roducts or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus, are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets, and will therefore not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of network security threat are often able to deliver these specialized network security products to the market more quickly than we can. some of our smaller competitors are using third-party chips designed to accelerate performance. conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. in addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by 24 table of contents third parties with greater available resources, such as juniper's acquisition of netscreen technologies, inc., intel's pending acquisition of mcafee and check point's acquisition of nokia's security appliance business. as a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and custome r needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. due to budget constraints or economic downturns, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing network security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with our solutions. these competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. if functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our appliances to their network, which would have an adverse effect on our business. large, well-established providers of networking equipment such as cisco systems, inc. and juniper networks, inc. offer, and may continue to introduce, network security features that compete with our products, either in stand-alone security products or as additional features in their network infrastructure products. the inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our security solutions in networking products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. furthermore, even if the functionality offered by network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor such as us. many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of networking products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from other vendors such as us. in addition, an organization's existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to matc h because we currently offer only network security products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. if organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our products without compensa ting us. we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. we purchased most of our issued u.s. patents and many of our pending u.s. patent applications from other entities. valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or products. any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. patent applications in the united states are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at al l, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. in addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the united states may bring into question the validity of certain software patents. as a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or effectively enforce our issued patents. despite our efforts to protect our prop rietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. policing unauthorized use of our technology or products is difficult. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the united states. from time-to-time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend a gainst claims of infringement or invalidity. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and 25 table of contents financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and products protected other than by patent rights), we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the add itional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. our products contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under &ldquo;open source&rdquo; licenses, including the gnu public license (gpl), the gnu lesser public license (lgpl), th e bsd license, the apache license and others. from time-to-time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants' intellectual property rights. we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to rele ase the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by united states courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary cod e, to re-engineer our products, or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network security industry. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectu al property rights against us. they may also assert such claims against our end-customers or channel partners whom we typically indemnify against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. any claim of infringement by a third-party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. in addition, future litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that pre vents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have been involved in patent disputes in the past, are currently involved in several patent disputes, and likely will be involved in additional disputes in the future. in may 2004, trend micro incorporated filed a complaint against us alleging that we infringed a trend micro patent related to antivirus software. the international trade commission, or itc, subsequently instituted an in vestigation which resulted in an exclusion order and a cease and desist order prohibiting us from selling a broad array of our products in the united states. in january 2006, we settled the lawsuit with trend micro, and subsequently the itc terminated its action and rescinded the orders. pursuant to the settlement and license agreement, we initially paid trend micro $15.0 million. the settlement and license agreement provides for additional quarterly royalty payments, not expected to exceed 1% of our total revenue each quarter, through 2015. in november 2008, we filed a complaint against trend micro in the united 26 table of contents states district court for the northern district of california alleging, among other claims, that the patents that are the basis for the ongoing royalty payments are invalid and consequently that we have no contractual obligation to pay the royalties. trend micro moved to dismiss the case, and, in june 2009, the court dismissed the case without prejudice on procedural grounds, and we appealed the dismissal in july 2009. based on the dispute, we ceased paying royalties under the settlement and license agreement. in august 2009, trend micro filed a complaint against us in the superior court of the state of california for santa clara county alleging breach of contract and seeking a declaratory judgment that we are obligated to make certain royalty payments to trend micro. in december 2009, we withdrew our appeal of the june 2009 dismissal by the united states district court for the northern district of california and filed a new complaint against trend micro in the united states district court for the northern district of california alleging, among other claims, that the patents that are the basis for the ongoing royalty payments are invalid and consequently that we have no contractual obligation to pay the royalties. in february 2010, trend micro filed demurrers in the state superior court action regarding fortinet's affirmative defenses that fortinet has no obligation to pay royalties because the trend micro patents are invalid or unenforceable. in march 2010, trend micro filed a motion to dismiss our new complaint that we filed in the united states district court for the northern district of california. in may 2010, the state superior court denied trend micro's demurrer in its entirety. also in may 2010, the united states district court for the northern district of california denied trend micro's motion to d ismiss without prejudice and stayed the action before that court pending the conclusion of the state superior court action. in january 2011, in response to petitions for re-examination we filed with the u.s. patent and trademark office ("pto"), the pto issued an initial office action that trend micro's patents at issue were invalid. in january 2011, we filed a motion to stay the superior court case pending final resolution at the pto. our motion to stay is currently pending. at this stage it is not possible to predict the outcome. an adverse outcome in this dispute could result in accelerated royalty payments and additional damages. as discussed in "item 3-legal proceedings," from time to time we are subject to lawsuits claiming patent inf ringement and there are lawsuits claiming patent infringement currently pending. if we are unsuccessful in defending any such claims, our operating results and financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. for example, we may be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling certain of our products. in addition to the lawsuits described in "legal proceedings," several other non-practicing patent holding companies have sent us letters proposing that we license certain of their patents, and, given this and the proliferation of lawsuits in our industry and other similar industries by both non-practicing entities and operating entities, we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. the cost to defend such lawsuits and any adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on the availability of third-party licenses. many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigat ion regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. risks related to ownership of our common stock as a public company, we are subject to compliance initiatives that will require substantial time from our management and result in significantly increased costs that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, as well as other rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq stock market, impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. these and proposed corporate governance laws and regulations under consideration may further increase our compliance costs. if compliance with these various legal and regulatory requirements diverts our management's attention from other busin ess concerns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. we completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2010 as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of december 31, 2010, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. if our internal controls or disclosure controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations, both 27 table of contents of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operat ions. a change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as changes to standards related to revenue recognition recently adopted by the fasb, the increased use of fair value measure, the recent proposed change to revenue recognition, lease accounting, financial instrument accounting standards, and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (&ldquo;ifrs&rdquo;), could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. if securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. if we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on u regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. the market price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this periodic report, and other factors such as rumors or fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, many companies that have ex perienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. our failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. we expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. after that, we may need to raise additional funds, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. if we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per-share value of our common stock could decline. furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of debt would have priority over the holders of common stock and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. we may also be required to take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the stockholders and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. if we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptab le terms, we may not be able to, among other things: &bull; develop or enhance our products and services; &bull; continue to expand our sales and marketing and research and development organizations; &bull; acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; &bull; expand operations, in the united states or internationally; &bull; hire, train and retain employees; or 28 table of contents & bull; respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. our failure to do any of these things could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. as of february 17, 2011 , our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 21.1% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, these stockholders are able to exercise a significant level of control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. this control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in management and will make the approval of certain transact ions difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. our corporate governance documents include provisions: &bull; creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; &bull; authorizing &ldquo;blank check&rdquo; preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; &bull; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our dire ctors and officers; &bull; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; &bull; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; &bull; controlling the procedures fo r the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and &bull; providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate fluctuation risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, money market funds, government and corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit. the risk associated with fluctuating interest 60 table of contents rates is limited to our investment portfolio. a 10% decrease in interest rates in 2010 , 2009 and 2008 would have resulted in a decrease in our interest income of approximately $0.2 million, $0.2 millio n and $0.3 million, respectively. foreign currency exchange risk our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency translation risk. however, a substantial portion of our operating expenses incurred outside the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the canadian dollar (cad), euro (eur), british pou nd (gbp), and japanese yen (jpy). to help protect against significant fluctuations in the value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we engage in foreign currency risk management activities to hedge balance sheet items denominated in eur, gbp, and cad, and occasionally to hedge future forecasted cash outflows denominated in eur. we do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. all of the derivative instruments are with high quality financial institutions and we monitor the creditworthiness of these parties. these contracts typically have maturities between one and three months. we account for our hedges under asc 815 derivatives and hedging . we record changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts related to balance sheet accounts as other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operation s. gains or losses resulting from settled forward exchange contracts related to future forecasted cash outflows are recorded in operating expenses in the consolidated statement of operations, in the same period the hedged items occur. gains or losses resulting from unsettled forward exchange contracts related to future forecasted cash outflows are recorded in other comprehensive income in the consolidated balance sheet. we recognized an expense of $0.8 million in other income (expense), net in fiscal 2010 due to foreign currency transaction losses. our hedging activities are intended to reduce , but not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. as our hedging activities are relatively short-term in nature, long-term material changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus the eur, gbp, cad, or jpy could adversely impact our operating expenses in the future. inflation risk our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are not affected significantly by inflation because they are short-term. we believe the impact of inflation on replacement c osts of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. the rate of inflation, however, affects our cost of revenue and expenses, such as those for employee compensation, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of products and services offered by us. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment. risks related to our business our quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including: the level of demand for our products and services; 8 table of contents the timing of channel partner and end-customer orders; the timing of shipments, which may depend on many factors such as inventory levels and logistics, our ability to ship new products on schedule and accurately forecast inventory requirements, and potential delays in the manufacturing process; inventory imbalances, such as those related to new products and the end of life of existing products; the mix of products sold, the mix of revenue between products and services and the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of our channel partners and end-customers; seasonal buying patterns of our end-customers; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, which may be affected by both the mix of sales by our sell-in versus our sell-through channel partners, and by the extent to which we bring on new distributors; the accuracy and timing of point of sale reporting by our sell-through distributors, which impacts our ability to recognize revenue; the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; changes in end-customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs; changes in the growth rate of the network security or utm markets; the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors or end-customers; deferral of orders from end-customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our expenses are incurred and paid in currencies other than the u.s. dollar; decisions by potential end-customers to purchase network security solutions from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; price competition; changes in customer renewal rates for our services; changes in the length of services contracts sold; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our products and services; disruptions in our channel or termination of our relationship with important channel partners; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our key suppliers, which could disrupt our supply chain; general economic conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets; and future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies. any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant 9 table of contents fluctuations in our quarterly financial and other operating results, including fluctuations in our key metrics. this variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. if we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. in addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue trends. accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. our billings and revenue growth may slow or may not continue. we may not be able to sustain profitability in future periods if we fail to increase billings, revenue or deferred revenue, do not appropriately manage our cost structure, or encounter unanticipated liabilities. billings and revenue growth may slow or decline for a number of reasons, including a slow down in demand for our products or services, an increase in competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, softness in demand in certain geographies, or if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. any failure by us to maintain profitability and continue our billings and revenue growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our revenue to fall below expected levels. as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas, we have historically received a substantial portion of each quarter's sales orders and generated a substantial portion of each quarter's revenue during the last two weeks of the quarter. if expected revenue at the end of any quarter is delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, or our logistics partners' inability to ship products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the quarter, our failure to manage inventory to meet demand, our inability to release new products on schedule, any failure of our systems related to order review and processing, or any delays in shipments based on trade compliance requirements, our revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. we rely significantly on revenue from subscription and support services which may decline, and because we recognize revenue from subscriptions and support services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. our services revenue has historically accounted for a significant percentage of our total revenue. sales of new or renewal subscription and services contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers' spending levels. if our sales of new or renewal subscription and services contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business will suffer. in addition, we recognize subscription and service revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically one year but has been as long as five years. as a result, much of the revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from subscription and services contracts entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscription or service contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our subscriptions or services is not reflected in full in our results of operations until future periods. our subscription and service revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal service contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. furthermore increases in the average term of services contracts would result in revenue for services contracts being recognized over longer periods of time. managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. insufficient inventory may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, return product or take advantage of price protection (if any), or delay orders in anticipation of new products. they also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-customer demand. furthermore, if the time required to manufacture certain products or ship products increases for any reason, this could result in inventory shortfalls. management of our inventory is further complicated by the significant number of different products and models that we sell. in addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our results of operations. our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage inventory. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain 10 table of contents inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. alternatively, insufficient inventory levels may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-customers turn to competitors' products that are readily available. for example, we experienced inventory shortages in the third quarter of 2011, based largely on more demand for certain products than we had forecast. if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our distribution partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on third-party channel partners to generate substantially all of our revenue. if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited, and if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results will be harmed. substantially all of our revenue is generated through sales by our channel partners, which include distributors and resellers. we depend upon our channel partners to generate sales opportunities and manage the sales process. to the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with, and retain, a sufficient number of high quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, and keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and operating results will be harmed. the termination of our relationship with any significant channel partner may adversely impact our sales and operating results. we provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them in selling our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. in addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services. our channel partners generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. they may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products. they may have incentives to promote our competitors' products to the detriment of our own. they may cease selling our products altogether. we cannot assure you that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement partners. the loss of one or more of our significant channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter through them could harm our operating results. in addition, any new sales channel partner will require extensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end-customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. if we fail to optimize our channel partner model or fail to manage existing sales channels, our business will be seriously harmed. if we are not successful in continuing to execute our strategy to increase our sales to larger end-customers, our results of operations may suffer. an important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of our products to large enterprises, service providers and governmental entities. sales to enterprises, service providers and governmental entities involve risks that may not be present (or that are present to a lesser extent) with sales to small-to-mid-sized entities. these risks include: increased competition from larger competitors, such as cisco systems, inc., check point software technologies ltd., mcafee, inc. (acquired by intel corporation), juniper networks, inc., that traditionally target enterprises, service providers and governmental entities and that may already have purchase commitments from those end-customers; increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end-customers in negotiating contractual arrangements; more stringent requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; and longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end-customer that elects not to purchase our products and services. large enterprises, service providers and governmental entities often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases over 12 months. although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with our distributors and resellers in connection with sales to larger end-customers. due to the lengthy nature, the size and scope, and stringent requirements of these evaluations, we typically provide evaluation products to these customers. we may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without being 11 table of contents successful in producing any sales. if we are unsuccessful in converting these evaluations into sales, we may experience an increased inventory of used products and potentially increased write-offs. in addition, product purchases by enterprises, service providers and governmental entities are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. finally, enterprise, service providers and governmental entities typically have longer implementation cycles, require greater product functionality and scalability and a broader range of services, including design services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, sometimes require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition, and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. all these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. if sales expected from a large end-customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the average sales prices of our products may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and adversely impact our financial results and the trading price of our common stock. the average sales prices for our products may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts we offer, a change in our mix of products, anticipation of the introduction of new products or promotional programs. competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or may bundle them with other products. additionally, although we price our products and services worldwide in u.s. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions may negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions. furthermore, we anticipate that the average sales prices and gross profits for our products will decrease over product life cycles. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices and gross profits at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, the failure of our products or services to prevent a virus or security breach, or misuse of our products could harm our reputation and divert resources. because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our customers. defects or vulnerabilities may impede or block network traffic or cause our products or services to be vulnerable to electronic break-ins or cause them to fail to help secure networks. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. in addition, defects or errors in our fortiguard subscription updates or our fortigate appliances could result in a failure of our fortiguard services to effectively update end-customers' fortigate appliances and thereby leave customers vulnerable to attacks. furthermore, our solutions may also fail to detect or prevent viruses, worms or similar threats due to a number of reasons such as the evolving nature of such threats and the continual emergence of new threats that we may fail to add to our fortiguard databases in time to protect our end-customers' networks. our fortiguard or forticare data centers and networks may also experience technical failures and downtime, and may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or fail to meet the increased requirements of a growing customer base. any such technical failure, downtime, or failures in general may temporarily or permanently expose our end-customers' networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. an actual or perceived security breach or infection of the network of one of our end-customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services to prevent the security breach, could adversely affect the market's perception of our security products. we may not be able to correct any security flaws or vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. our products may also be misused by end-customers or third parties who obtain access to our products. for example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the internet. such use of our products for censorship could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, even if we take reasonable measures to prevent any improper shipment of our products or if our products are provided by an unauthorized third-party. any defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, or misuse of our products, could result in: expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work-around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; loss of existing or potential end-customers or channel partners; delayed or lost revenue; delay or failure to attain market acceptance; 12 table of contents negative publicity, which will harm our reputation; and litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation. our business and operations have experienced rapid growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results will be negatively affected. we have a high volume business that has grown over the last several years. we rely heavily on information technology systems to help manage critical functions such as order processing, revenue recognition, financial forecasts, inventory and supply chain management and trade compliance reviews. however, we have been slow to adopt and implement certain automated functions, like electronic data interchange, which could have a negative impact on our business. for example, a large part of our order processing relies on the manual processing of emails internally and from our customers. combined with the fact that we may receive a majority of our orders in the last few weeks of any given quarter, a significant interruption in our email service or other systems could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased revenue for that quarter. to manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. we may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner. in addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. our productivity and the quality of our products and services may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our results of operations. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this form 10-k, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, valuation of inventory, warranty liabilities, and accounting for income taxes. we offer retroactive price protection to certain of our major distributors, and if we fail to balance their inventory with end-customer demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we provide certain of our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. if we reduce the list price of our products, certain distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the levels of our major distributors' inventories. if future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering and sales, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we have experienced turnover in our management-level personnel. none of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. competition for highly skilled 13 table of contents personnel is frequently intense, especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel: the san francisco bay area, vancouver, canada and beijing, china. a large portion of our employee base is substantially vested in significant stock option grants, and the ability to exercise those options and sell their stock may result in a larger than normal turnover rate. we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. we are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute on our business plan, and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. the loss of services of senior management, particularly ken xie, our co-founder, president and chief executive officer, michael xie, our co-founder, vice president of engineering and chief technical officer, and ken goldman, our vice president and chief financial officer, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. in addition, key personnel may be distracted by activities unrelated to our business. the loss of the services, or distraction, of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. in addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. weak global economic conditions, weak economic conditions in certain geographies, or a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macro-economic conditions, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our distributors, reduced unit sales and lower or no growth. because we depend on several third-party manufacturers to build our products, we are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to a variety of contract manufacturing partners and original design manufacturing partners. our reliance on our third-party manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs and product supply and timing. any manufacturing disruption by our third-party manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, increased manufacturing lead-times, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our business would be seriously harmed. these manufacturers fulfill our supply requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders. we have no long-term contracts or arrangements with certain of our third-party manufacturers that guarantee capacity, the continuation of particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for manufacturing services could be increased on short notice. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers would be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs which could adversely affect our gross margins. our individual product lines are generally manufactured by only one manufacturing partner. any production interruptions for any reason, such as a natural disaster, epidemic, capacity shortages, or quality problems, at one of our manufacturing partners would severely affect sales of our product lines manufactured by that manufacturing partner. our proprietary fortiasic, which is the key to the performance of our appliances, is fabricated by contract manufacturers in foundries operated by umc and taiwan semiconductor manufacturing corporation, or tsmc. faraday (using umc's foundry), k-micro (using tsmc's foundry) and renesas (using umc's foundry) manufacture our asics on a purchase order basis, and these foundries do not guarantee any capacity and could reject orders from faraday, k-micro or renesas or try to increase pricing. accordingly, the foundries are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and due to the long lead time that a new foundry would require, we could suffer temporary or long term inventory shortages of our fortiasic as well as increased costs. our suppliers may also prioritize orders by other companies that order higher 14 table of contents volumes of products. if any of these suppliers materially delays its supply of asics or specific product models to us, or requires us to find an alternate supplier and we are not able to do so on a timely and reasonable basis, or if these foundries materially increase their prices for fabrication of our asics or specific product models, our business would be harmed. in addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries limits our control over environmental regulatory requirements such as the hazardous substance content of our products and therefore our ability to ensure compliance with the eu rohs and other similar laws. because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, we are susceptible to supply shortages, long lead times for components, and supply changes, each of which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers, result in inventory shortage, and may result in the loss of sales and customers. we and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key parts and components used in the manufacture of our products from limited sources of supply. we are therefore subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times in the supply of these components and the risk that component suppliers discontinue or modify components used in our products. we have in the past experienced, and are currently experiencing, shortages and long lead times for certain components. certain of our limited source components for particular appliances and suppliers of those components include: specific types of central processing units from intel corporation, advanced micro devices, inc., rmi/netlogic corporation and via technologies, inc., network chips from broadcom corporation, marvell technology group ltd. and intel, and hard drives from western digital technologies, inc. the introduction by component suppliers of new versions of their products, particularly if not anticipated by us or our contract manufacturers, could require us to expend significant resources to incorporate these new components into our products. in addition, if these suppliers were to discontinue production of a necessary part or component, we would be required to expend significant resources and time in locating and integrating replacement parts or components from another vendor. qualifying additional suppliers for limited source parts or components can be time-consuming and expensive. our manufacturing partners have experienced long lead times for the purchase of components incorporated into our products. lead times for components may be adversely impacted by factors outside of our control, such as natural disasters and other factors. for example, lead times for some components are currently being extended by the impact of flooding in thailand on certain suppliers. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts or components when required; financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers; infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; price increases; failure of a component to meet environmental or other regulatory requirements; failure to meet delivery obligations in a timely fashion; and failure in component quality. the occurrence of any of these would be disruptive to us and could seriously harm our business. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our distributors, resellers and end-customers. this could harm our relationships with our channel partners and end-customers and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. a majority of our operating expenses is incurred outside the united states. these expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the euro and canadian dollar. for example, during the second and third quarters of 2011, we were impacted by the weakening of the dollar against the canadian dollar and the euro, which caused our operating expenses to increase. although we have been hedging currency exposures relating to certain balance sheet accounts and have periodically entered into cash flow hedges relating to certain operating expenses incurred outside of the united states, if we stop hedging against any of these risks or if 15 table of contents our attempts to hedge against these currency exposures are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. however, a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the united states, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we generate a majority of revenue from sales to distributors, resellers and end-customers outside of the united states, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. we market and sell our products throughout the world and have established sales offices in many parts of the world. therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. we are also subject to a number of risks typically associated with international sales and operations, including: economic or political instability in foreign markets; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; changes in regulatory requirements; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; costs of compliance with foreign policies, laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such policies, laws and regulations; costs of complying with u.s. laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, and economic sanctions; other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; the potential for political unrest, terrorism, hostilities or war; management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. product and service sales may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. further, we may be unable to keep up-to-date with changes in government requirements as they change from time to time. failure to comply with these regulations could result in adverse effects to our business. in many foreign countries it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties, or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, certain of our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the u.s. only with the required export license or through an export license exception. if 16 table of contents we were to fail to comply with u.s. export licensing, u.s. customs regulations, u.s. economic sanctions and other laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. in addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. furthermore, u.s. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to u.s. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to u.s. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners, despite such precautions. any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations and penalties and reputational harm. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting/licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include the european union, or eu, rohs and the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directive as well as the implementing legislation of the eu member states. similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in china, south korea, norway and japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the united states, and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban the use of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. we have incurred costs to comply with these laws, including research and development costs, costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components and costs associated with writing off noncompliant inventory. we expect to incur more of these costs in the future. with respect to the eu rohs, we and our competitors rely on an exemption for lead in network infrastructure equipment. it is possible this exemption will be revoked in the near future. if this exemption is revoked, if there are other changes to these laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. the eu has also adopted the weee directive, which requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. although currently our eu international channel partners are responsible for the requirements of this directive as the importer of record in most of the european countries in which we sell our products, changes in interpretation of the regulations may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements in the future to meet in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. our failure to comply with these and future environmental rules and regulations could result in reduced sales of our products, increased costs, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions. a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to governmental entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. sales to u.s. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to governmental entities. sales to governmental entities are subject to a number of risks. selling to governmental entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will win a sale. government demand and payment 17 table of contents for our products and services may be negatively impacted by numerous factors and requirements unique to selling to government agencies, such as public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations and requirements unique to government agencies, with funding or purchasing reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products. to date we have had limited traction in sales to u.s. federal government agencies, and any future sales to governmental entities is uncertain. all of our sales to governmental entities have been made indirectly through our distribution channel. governmental entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. for example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such governmental entity, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such distributor. governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors' administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way. finally, purchases by the u.s. government may require certain products to be manufactured in the united states and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the u.s. government. false detection of viruses or security breaches or false identification of spam or spyware could adversely affect our business. our antivirus and our intrusion prevention services may falsely detect viruses or other threats that do not actually exist. this risk is heightened by the inclusion of a heuristics feature in our products, which attempts to identify viruses and other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies that may indicate that a particular item is a threat. when our end-customers enable the heuristics feature in our products, the risk of falsely identifying viruses and other threats significantly increases. these false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. also, our antispam and antispyware services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent antispam or spyware products. parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. in addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may reduce the adoption of our products. if our system restricts important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect end-customers' systems and cause material system failures. any such false identification of important files or applications could result in negative publicity, loss of end-customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem, and costly litigation. if our internal network system is compromised by computer hackers, public perception of our products and services will be harmed. we will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective network security protection. because we provide network security products, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers. although we have not experienced significant damages from unauthorized access by a third-party of our internal network, if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our internal systems it could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services. in addition, such a security breach could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide subscription and support services to our end-customers. if this happens, our revenue could decline and our business could suffer. our ability to sell our products is dependent on the quality of our technical support services, and our failure to offer high quality technical support services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. once our products are deployed within our end-customers' networks, our end-customers depend on our technical support services, as well as the support of our channel partners, to resolve any issues relating to our products. if we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. many enterprise, service provider and governmental entity end-customers require higher levels of support than smaller end-customers. if we fail to meet the requirements of the larger end-customers, it may be more difficult to execute on our strategy to increase our penetration with larger end-customers. as a result, our failure to maintain high quality support services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 table of contents changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in the research and development tax credit laws; transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development and legal structure; an increase in non-deductible expenses for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; tax costs related to intercompany realignments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax provision for the period in which the settlement takes place; a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings; changes in accounting principles; or changes in tax laws and regulations including possible changes in the united states to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules, or changes to the united states income tax rate, which would necessitate a revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in accounting standards codification ("asc") 740-10. in addition, asc 740-10 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. although we released our entire valuation allowance in fiscal 2009, we may in the future be required to establish a new valuation allowance. we will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. if the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimated, our actual tax rate 19 table of contents could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. the taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. in addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. if tax authorities challenge the relative mix of u.s. and international income, our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected. while we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. in order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies and intellectual property, such as patents. if we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product, technology or intellectual property into our existing business and operations. we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, intellectual property or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues. in addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may not be accretive to earnings and may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in write-offs that could be substantial. further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating acquired businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property will significantly divert management time and resources. our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. our products are very complex and, despite testing prior to their release, have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. for example, one of our high-end product models experienced a defect in limited deployments. product errors have affected the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our end-customers' willingness to buy products from us, and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant end-customers, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. as a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products, and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. the occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the united states or other countries. the sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. we maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. in addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management's time and other resources. 20 table of contents our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as civil unrest and terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, a flood, or significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. in addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors or logistics providers' ability to perform services such as obtaining product components and manufacturing products on a timely basis and assisting with shipments on a timely basis. in the event our or our service providers' information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. in addition, regional instability, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners, or end-customers or the economy as a whole. given our typical concentration of sales at each quarter end, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. all of the aforementioned risks may be augmented if the disaster recovery plans for us and our suppliers prove to be inadequate. to the extent that any of the above results in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the delay in the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. risks related to our industry the network security market is rapidly evolving and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing end-customer needs, our competitive position and prospects will be harmed. the network security market is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. moreover, many of our end-customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly complex enterprise networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. in addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, while minimizing the impact on network performance. additionally, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new hardware architectures and asics that involve complex, expensive and time consuming research and development processes. although the market expects rapid introduction of new products or product enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain and there can be long time periods between releases and availability of new products. we have in the past and may in the future experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and services and fail to meet previously announced timetables for such availability. if we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our end-customers by developing and releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and services or enhancements that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. our url database for our web filtering service may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth of urls and may not categorize websites in accordance with our end-customers' expectations. the success of our web filtering service depends on the breadth and accuracy of our url database. although our url database currently catalogs millions of unique urls, it contains only a portion of the urls for all of the websites that are available on the internet. in addition, the total number of urls and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth to continue in the future. accordingly, we must identify and categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate. our database and technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of websites, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the internet. further, the ongoing evolution of the internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our web filtering function. any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the internet will impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn will harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our web filtering service may not be successful in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our end-customers' expectations. we rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize websites and software applications in our proprietary databases. our end-customers may not agree with our determinations that particular urls should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. in addition, it is 21 table of contents possible that our filtering processes may place material that is objectionable or that presents a security risk in categories that are generally unrestricted by our users' internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. conversely, we may miscategorize websites such that access is denied to websites containing information that is important or valuable to our customers. any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. any failure to effectively categorize and filter websites according to our end-customers' and channel partners' expectations will impair the growth of our business. if our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. we spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new products and enhanced versions of our existing products to incorporate additional features, improved functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers' rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. when we develop a new product or an enhanced version of an existing product, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing our new products or enhancements to the market; failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; failure of our sales force and partners to focus on selling new products; inability to interoperate effectively with the networks or applications of our prospective end-customers; inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; defects, errors or failures; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay it purchases; easing of regulatory requirements around security; and reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. unless we continue to develop better market awareness of our company and our products, our revenue may not continue to grow. we are a relatively new entrant in the network security market, and we believe that we have not yet established sufficient market awareness of our participation in that market. market awareness of our capabilities and products is essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large enterprise, service provider and governmental entities markets. if our marketing programs are not successful in creating market awareness of our company and products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. demand for unified threat management products may be limited by market perception that utm products are inferior to 22 table of contents network security solutions from multiple vendors. sales of most of our products depend on increased demand for utm products. if the utm market fails to grow as we anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. target customers may view utm all-in-one solutions as inferior to security solutions from multiple vendors because of, among other things, their perception that utm products provide security functions from only a single vendor and do not allow users to choose best-of-breed defenses from among the wide range of dedicated security applications available. target customers might also perceive that, by combining multiple security functions into a single platform, utm solutions create a single point of failure in their networks, which means that an error, vulnerability or failure of the utm product may place the entire network at risk. in addition, the market perception that utm solutions may be suitable only for small and medium sized businesses because utm lacks the performance capabilities and functionality of other solutions may harm our sales to large enterprise, service provider, and governmental entity end-customers. if the foregoing concerns and perceptions become prevalent, even if there is no factual basis for these concerns and perceptions, or if other issues arise with the utm market in general, demand for utm products could be severely limited, which would limit our growth and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. further a successful and publicized targeted attack against us or another well known utm vendor exposing a single point of failure could significantly increase these concerns and perceptions and may harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in our market, especially from larger, better-known companies, and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. the market for network security products is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. our competitors include networking companies such as cisco systems, inc., juniper networks, inc., and security vendors such as check point software technologies ltd., mcafee, inc. (acquired by intel corporation), and sonicwall, inc. (acquired by thoma bravo), palo alto networks, and other point solution security vendors. many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as: greater name recognition and longer operating histories; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers; access to larger customer bases; greater customer support resources; greater resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus and are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets. therefore, these competitors will not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of network security threat are often able to deliver these specialized network security products to the market more quickly than we can. some of our smaller competitors are using third-party chips designed to accelerate performance. conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. in addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources, such as juniper's acquisition of netscreen technologies, inc., intel's acquisition of mcafee and check point's acquisition of nokia's security appliance business. as a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services 23 table of contents competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. due to budget constraints or economic downturns, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing network security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with our solutions. these competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. if functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our appliances to their network, which would have an adverse effect on our business. large, well-established providers of networking equipment such as cisco systems, inc. and juniper networks, inc. offer, and may continue to introduce, network security features that compete with our products, either in stand-alone security products or as additional features in their network infrastructure products. the inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our security solutions in networking products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. furthermore, even if the functionality offered by network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor such as us. many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of networking products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from other vendors such as us. in addition, an organization's existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only network security products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. if organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our products without compensating us. we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or products. any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. patent applications in the united states are typically not published until at least 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. in addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the united states may bring into question the validity of certain software patents. as a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or effectively enforce our issued patents. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. policing unauthorized use of our technology or products is difficult. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the united states. from time-to-time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and products protected other than by patent rights), we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. our products contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. 24 table of contents our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including the gnu public license (gpl), the gnu lesser public license (lgpl), the bsd license, the apache license and others. from time-to-time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants' intellectual property rights. we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by united states courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, to re-engineer our products, or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other litigation matters could harm our business. patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network security industry. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us. they may also assert such claims against our end-customers or channel partners whom we typically indemnify against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. any claim of infringement by a third-party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. in addition, future litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable, and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have been involved in patent disputes in the past, are currently involved in several patent disputes, and likely will be involved in additional disputes in the future. in may 2004, trend micro incorporated filed a complaint against us alleging that we infringed a trend micro patent related to antivirus software. the international trade commission, or itc, subsequently instituted an investigation which resulted in an exclusion order and a cease and desist order prohibiting us from selling a broad array of our products in the united states. in january 2006, we settled the lawsuit with trend micro, and subsequently the itc terminated its action and rescinded the orders. pursuant to the settlement and license agreement, we initially paid trend micro $15.0 million. the settlement and license agreement provides for additional quarterly royalty payments. we had a subsequent dispute with trend micro regarding the royalty payments and in december 2011, we entered into a settlement agreement with trend micro resolving the dispute for a one-time payment of $9.0 million. the settlement agreement includes a fully-paid license to the patents subject to the prior patent license agreement, with no continuing obligation to pay royalties for those patents. as discussed in "item 3-legal proceedings," from time to time we are subject to lawsuits claiming patent infringement, and there are lawsuits claiming patent infringement currently pending. we are also subject to other litigation in 25 table of contents addition to patent infringement claims. if we are unsuccessful in defending any such claims, our operating results and financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. for example, we may be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling certain of our products. in addition to the lawsuits described in "legal proceedings," several other non-practicing patent holding companies have sent us letters proposing that we license certain of their patents, and given this and the proliferation of lawsuits in our industry and other similar industries by both non-practicing entities and operating entities, we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. the cost to defend such lawsuits and any adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on the availability of third-party licenses. many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. risks related to ownership of our common stock as a public company, we are subject to compliance initiatives that will require substantial time from our management and result in significantly increased costs that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, as well as other rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq stock market, impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. these and proposed corporate governance laws and regulations under consideration may further increase our compliance costs. if compliance with these various legal and regulatory requirements diverts our management's attention from other business concerns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. we completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2011 as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of december 31, 2011, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in 2012 or future periods. if our internal controls or disclosure controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as changes to standards related to revenue recognition adopted by the financial accounting standards board ("fasb") that went effective january 1, 2011, the increased use of fair value measure, the recent proposed change to revenue recognition, lease accounting, financial instrument accounting standards, and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. effective january 1, 2011, we started reporting revenue recognition based on the new revenue standards issued by the fasb. if we do not ensure that our systems and processes for revenue recognition are aligned with the new standards, we could encounter difficulties generating quarterly and annual financial statements in a timely manner, which would have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to meet our reporting obligations. if securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. if we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would 26 table of contents likely decline. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. the market price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this periodic report, and other factors such as rumors or fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. our failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. we expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. after that, we may need to raise additional funds, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. if we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per-share value of our common stock could decline. furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of debt would have priority over the holders of common stock and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. we may also be required to take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the stockholders and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. if we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: develop or enhance our products and services; continue to expand our sales and marketing and research and development organizations; acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; expand operations, in the united states or internationally; hire, train and retain employees; or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. our failure to do any of these things could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. as of february 17, 2012 , our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 17.2% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, these stockholders are able to exercise a significant level of control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. this control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in management and will make the approval of certain transactions difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. 27 table of contents our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. our corporate governance documents include provisions: creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15.0% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate fluctuation risk 61 table of contents the primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, money market funds, government and corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit. the risk associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio. a 10% decrease in interest rates in 2011 , 2010 and 2009 would have resulted in a decrease in our interest income of approximately $0.4 million, $0.2 million and $0.2 million, respectively. foreign currency exchange risk our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency translation risk. however, a substantial portion of our operating expenses incurred outside the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the canadian dollar (cad), euro (eur), british pound (gbp), and japanese yen (jpy). to help protect against significant fluctuations in the value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we engage in foreign currency risk management activities to hedge balance sheet items denominated in eur, gbp, and cad. we do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. all of the derivative instruments are with high quality financial institutions, and we monitor the creditworthiness of these parties. these contracts typically have maturities between one and three months. we account for our hedges under asc 815 derivatives and hedging . we record changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts related to balance sheet accounts as other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations. we recognized an expense of $0.4 million in other income (expense), net in fiscal 2011 due to foreign currency transaction losses. our hedging activities are intended to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. as our hedging activities are relatively short-term in nature, long-term material changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus the eur, gbp, cad, or jpy could adversely impact our operating expenses in the future. inflation risk our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are not affected significantly by inflation because they are short-term. we believe the impact of inflation on replacement costs of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. the rate of inflation, however, affects our cost of revenue and expenses, such as those for employee compensation, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of products and services offered by us. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment. risks related to our business our quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including: the level of demand for our products and services; the timing of channel partner and end-customer orders; the timing of shipments, which may depend on many factors such as inventory levels and logistics, our ability to ship new products on schedule and to accurately forecast inventory requirements, and potential delays in the manufacturing process; inventory imbalances, such as those related to new products and the end of life of existing products; the mix of products sold, the mix of revenue between products and services and the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of our channel partners and end-customers; seasonal buying patterns of our end-customers; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, which may be affected by both the mix of sales by our sell-in versus our sell-through channel partners, and by the extent to which we bring on new distributors; the accuracy and timing of point of sale reporting by our sell-through distributors, which impacts our ability to recognize revenue; the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; changes in end-customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs; 9 table of contents changes in the growth rate of the network security or utm markets; the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors or end-customers; deferral of orders from end-customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our expenses are incurred and paid in currencies other than the u.s. dollar; decisions by potential end-customers to purchase network security solutions from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; price competition, and increased competitiveness in general in our market; changes in customer renewal rates for our services; changes in the payment terms of services contracts or the length of services contracts sold; increased expenses and any impact on results of operations from any acquisition consummated; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our products and services; disruptions in our channel or termination of our relationship with important channel partners; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our key suppliers, which could disrupt our supply chain; general economic conditions, both in our domestic and foreign markets; and future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies. any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial and other operating results, including fluctuations in our key metrics. this variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. if we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. in addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue trends. accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. our billings and revenue growth may slow or may not continue. billings and revenue growth may slow or decline for a number of reasons, including a slowdown in demand for our products or services, an increase in competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, softness in demand in certain geographies, or if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. we may not be able to sustain profitability in future periods if we fail to increase billings, revenue or deferred revenue, do not appropriately manage our cost structure, or encounter unanticipated liabilities. any failure by us to maintain profitability and continue our billings and revenue growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our revenue to fall below expected levels. as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas, we have historically received a substantial portion of each quarter's sales orders and generated a substantial portion of each quarter's revenue during the last two weeks of the quarter. for example, on average over the past eight quarters, our shipments during the last two weeks of each quarter accounted for approximately 35% of aggregate billings for each quarter. if expected revenue at the end of any quarter is delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, our logistics partners' inability to ship products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received 10 table of contents near the end of the quarter, our failure to manage inventory to meet demand, our inability to release new products on schedule, any failure of our systems related to order review and processing, or any delays in shipments based on trade compliance requirements, our revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. we rely significantly on revenue from subscription and support services which may decline, and because we recognize revenue from subscription and support services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales of subscription and support services are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. our subscription and support services revenue has historically accounted for a significant percentage of our total revenue. sales of new or renewal subscription and support services contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers' spending levels. if our sales of new or renewal subscription and support services contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business will suffer. in addition, in the event significant customers require payment terms for subscription or support services in arrears or for shorter periods of time than annually, such as monthly or quarterly, this may negatively impact subscription and support billing. furthermore, we recognize subscription and support services revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically one year but has been as long as five years. as a result, much of the subscription and support services revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from subscription and support services contracts entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscription or support services contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our subscriptions or support services is not reflected in full in our statements of operations until future periods. our subscription and support services revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal services contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. insufficient inventory may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. managing our inventory is complex. our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, return products or take advantage of price protection (if any is available to the particular partner), or delay orders in anticipation of new products. they also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-customer demand. furthermore, if the time required to manufacture certain products or ship products increases for any reason, this could result in inventory shortfalls. management of our inventory is further complicated by the significant number of different products and models that we sell. in addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our results of operations. our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage inventory. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. alternatively, insufficient inventory levels may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-customers turn to competitors' products that are readily available. for example, we have experienced inventory shortages in the past, for instance, based on more demand for certain products than we had forecasted. if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our channel partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we rely on third-party channel partners to generate substantially all of our revenue. if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited, and if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results will be harmed. substantially all of our revenue is generated through sales by our channel partners, which include distributors and resellers. we depend upon our channel partners to generate sales opportunities and manage the sales process. to the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with, and retain, a sufficient number of high quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, and keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and operating results will be harmed. the termination of our relationship with any significant channel partner may adversely impact our sales and operating results. 11 table of contents we provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them in selling our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. in addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services. our channel partners generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. they may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products. they may also have incentives to promote our competitors' products to the detriment of our own. they may cease selling our products altogether. we cannot assure you that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement partners or that existing channel partners will continue to perform. the loss of one or more of our significant channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter through them could harm our operating results. in addition, any new sales channel partner will require extensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end-customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. if we fail to optimize our channel partner model or fail to manage existing sales channels, our business will be seriously harmed. if we are not successful in continuing to execute our strategy to increase our sales to larger end-customers, our results of operations may suffer. an important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of our products to large enterprises, service providers and governmental entities. sales to enterprises, service providers and governmental entities involve risks that may not be present (or that are present to a lesser extent) with sales to small-to-mid-sized entities. these risks include: increased competition from competitors, such as cisco, check point, mcafee (acquired by intel), palo alto networks, and juniper, that traditionally target enterprises, service providers and governmental entities and that may already have purchase commitments from those end-customers; increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end-customers in negotiating contractual arrangements; more stringent requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; and longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end-customer that elects not to purchase our products and services. large enterprises, service providers and governmental entities often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases over 12 months. although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with our distributors and resellers in connection with sales to larger end-customers. due to the lengthy nature, the size and scope, and stringent requirements of these evaluations, we typically provide evaluation products to these customers. we may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without being successful in producing any sales. if we are unsuccessful in converting these evaluations into sales, we may experience an increased inventory of used products and potentially increased write-offs. in addition, product purchases by enterprises, service providers and governmental entities are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. finally, enterprises, service providers and governmental entities typically have longer implementation cycles, require greater product functionality and scalability and a broader range of services, including design services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, sometimes require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition, and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. all these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. if sales expected from a large end-customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. the average sales prices of our products may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and adversely impact our financial results and the trading price of our common stock. the average sales prices for our products may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts we offer, a change in our mix of products, anticipation of the introduction of new products or promotional programs. competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or may bundle them with other products. additionally, although we price our products and services worldwide in u.s. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions may negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those 12 table of contents countries and regions. furthermore, we anticipate that the average sales prices and gross profits for our products will decrease over product life cycles. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices and gross profits at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. actual, possible or perceived defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, the failure of our products or services to prevent a virus or security breach, or misuse of our products could harm our reputation and divert resources. because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our customers. defects or vulnerabilities may impede or block network traffic or cause our products or services to be vulnerable to electronic break-ins or cause them to fail to help secure networks. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. in addition, defects or errors in our fortiguard subscription updates or our fortigate appliances could result in a failure of our fortiguard services to effectively update end-customers' fortigate appliances and thereby leave customers vulnerable to attacks. furthermore, our solutions may also fail to detect or prevent viruses, worms or similar threats due to a number of reasons such as the evolving nature of such threats and the continual emergence of new threats that we may fail to add to our fortiguard databases in time to protect our end-customers' networks. our fortiguard or forticare data centers and networks may also experience technical failures and downtime, and may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or fail to meet the increased requirements of a growing customer base. any such technical failure, downtime, or failures in general may temporarily or permanently expose our end-customers' networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. an actual, possible or perceived security breach or infection of the network of one of our end-customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services to prevent the security breach, could adversely affect the market's perception of our security products and services. we may not be able to correct any security flaws or vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. our products may also be misused by end-customers or third parties who obtain access to our products. for example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the internet. such use of our products for censorship could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, even if we take reasonable measures to prevent any improper shipment of our products or if our products are provided by an unauthorized third-party. any actual, possible, or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, or misuse of our products, could result in: expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work-around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; loss of existing or potential end-customers or channel partners; delayed or lost revenue; delay or failure to attain market acceptance; negative publicity, which will harm our reputation; and litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation. our business and operations have experienced significant growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results will be negatively affected. we have a high volume business that has grown over the last several years. we rely heavily on information technology systems to help manage critical functions such as order processing, revenue recognition, financial forecasts, inventory and supply chain management and trade compliance reviews. however, we have been slow to adopt and implement certain automated functions, like electronic data interchange, which could have a negative impact on our business. for example, a large part of our order processing relies on the manual processing of emails internally and from our customers. combined with the fact that we may receive a majority of our orders in the last few weeks of any given quarter, a significant interruption in our email service or other systems could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased revenue for that quarter. to manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. we may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner. for example, we are in the early stages of considering upgrading our enterprise resource planning system and any such 13 table of contents change may cause disruption and additional cost. in addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. our productivity and the quality of our products and services may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our results of operations. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation expense, valuation of inventory, warranty liabilities, and accounting for income taxes. we offer retroactive price protection to certain of our major distributors, and if we fail to balance their inventory with end-customer demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we provide certain of our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. if we reduce the list price of our products, certain distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the levels of our major distributors' inventories. if future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering and sales, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we have experienced turnover in our management-level personnel, including the recent resignation of our vice president of sales for americas. none of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. competition for highly-skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel: the san francisco bay area, vancouver, canada and beijing, china. we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. we are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute on our business plan, and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. ken goldman, our former vice president and chief financial officer, resigned from his position in october 2012. the loss of services of other members of senior management, particularly ken xie, our co-founder, president and chief executive officer and michael xie, our co-founder, vice president of engineering and chief technology officer, and any of our senior sales leaders, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. in addition, key personnel may be distracted by activities unrelated to our business. the loss of the services, or distraction, of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 table of contents adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. in addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. weak global economic conditions, weak economic conditions in certain geographies, or a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macro-economic conditions, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our distributors, reduced unit sales and lower or no growth. because we depend on several third-party manufacturers to build our products, we are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers, and third-party manufacturing cost increases could result in lower gross margins. we outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to a variety of contract manufacturing partners and original design manufacturing partners. our reliance on our third-party manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs and product supply and timing. any manufacturing disruption by our third-party manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, increased manufacturing lead-times, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our business would be seriously harmed. these manufacturers fulfill our supply requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders. we have no long-term contracts or arrangements with certain of our third-party manufacturers that guarantee capacity, the continuation of particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for manufacturing services could be increased on short notice. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers would be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs which could adversely affect our gross margins. our individual product lines are generally manufactured by only one manufacturing partner. any production interruptions for any reason, such as a natural disaster, epidemic, capacity shortages, or quality problems, at one of our manufacturing partners would severely affect sales of our product lines manufactured by that manufacturing partner. furthermore manufacturing cost increases for any reason could result in lower gross margins. our proprietary fortiasic, which is the key to the performance of our appliances, is fabricated by contract manufacturers in foundries operated by umc and tsmc. faraday technology corporation (using umc's foundry), k-micro (using tsmc's foundry) and renesas (using umc's foundry) manufacture our asics on a purchase order basis, and these foundries do not guarantee any capacity and could reject orders from faraday, k-micro or renesas or try to increase pricing. accordingly, the foundries are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and due to the long lead time that a new foundry would require, we could suffer temporary or long term inventory shortages of our fortiasic as well as increased costs. our suppliers may also prioritize orders by other companies that order higher volumes of products. if any of these suppliers materially delays its supply of asics or specific product models to us, or requires us to find an alternate supplier and we are not able to do so on a timely and reasonable basis, or if these foundries materially increase their prices for fabrication of our asics or specific product models, our business would be harmed. in addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries limits our control over environmental regulatory requirements such as the hazardous substance content of our products and therefore our ability to ensure compliance with the european union's ( eu ) restriction of hazardous substances directive ( rohs ) and other similar laws. it also exposes us to the risk that certain minerals and metals that originated in the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country, known as conflict minerals, are contained within our products. under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, the sec adopted new disclosure requirements for public companies using conflict minerals in their products. under these rules, we are required to perform due diligence, disclose and report our efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. as a result of these new rules, we expect to incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the conflict minerals that may be used in our products. moreover, the implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products. 15 table of contents because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, we are susceptible to supply shortages, long lead times for components, and supply changes, each of which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers, result in inventory shortage, and may result in the loss of sales and customers, and increased component costs may result in lower gross margins. we and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key parts and components used in the manufacture of our products from limited sources of supply. we are therefore subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times in the supply of these components and the risk that component suppliers discontinue or modify components used in our products. we have in the past experienced, and are currently experiencing, shortages and long lead times for certain components. certain of our limited source components for particular appliances and suppliers of those components include: specific types of central processing units from intel, advanced micro devices, inc., rmi/netlogic corporation and via technologies, inc., network chips from broadcom, marvell and intel, and hard drives from western digital technologies, inc. the introduction by component suppliers of new versions of their products, particularly if not anticipated by us or our contract manufacturers, could require us to expend significant resources to incorporate these new components into our products. in addition, if these suppliers were to discontinue production of a necessary part or component, we would be required to expend significant resources and time in locating and integrating replacement parts or components from another vendor. qualifying additional suppliers for limited source parts or components can be time-consuming and expensive. our manufacturing partners have experienced long lead times for the purchase of components incorporated into our products. lead times for components may be adversely impacted by factors outside of our control, such as natural disasters and other factors. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts or components when required; financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers; infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; price increases; failure of a component to meet environmental or other regulatory requirements; failure to meet delivery obligations in a timely fashion; and failure in component quality. the occurrence of any of these would be disruptive to us and could seriously harm our business. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our distributors, resellers and end-customers. this could harm our relationships with our channel partners and end-customers and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, increased component costs could result in lower gross margins. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. a majority of our operating expenses is incurred outside the united states. these expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the euro and canadian dollar ( cad ) . for example, during the second and third quarters of 2011, we were affected by the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the cad and the euro ( eur ), which caused our operating expenses to increase. although we have been hedging currency exposures relating to certain balance sheet accounts and have periodically entered into cash flow hedges relating to certain operating expenses incurred outside of the united states, if we stop hedging against any of these risks or if our attempts to hedge against these currency exposures are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. however, a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the united states, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 16 table of contents we generate a majority of revenue from sales to distributors, resellers and end-customers outside of the united states, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. we market and sell our products throughout the world and have established sales offices in many parts of the world. therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. we are also subject to a number of risks typically associated with international sales and operations, including: economic or political instability in foreign markets; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; changes in regulatory requirements; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; costs of compliance with foreign policies, laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such policies, laws and regulations; costs of complying with u.s. laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, and economic sanctions; other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; the potential for political unrest, terrorism, hostilities or war; management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. product and service sales may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. further, we may be unable to keep up-to-date with changes in government requirements as they change from time to time. failure to comply with these regulations could result in adverse effects to our business. in many foreign countries it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties, or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, certain of our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the u.s. only with the required export license or through an export license exception. if we were to fail to comply with u.s. export licensing, u.s. customs regulations and import regulations, u.s. economic sanctions and other countries' import and export laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. in addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. 17 table of contents furthermore, u.s. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to u.s. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to u.s. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners, despite such precautions. any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations and penalties and reputational harm. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting/licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include the eu, rohs and the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive ( weee directive ) as well as the implementing legislation of the eu member states. similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in china, south korea, norway and japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the united states, and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban the use of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. we have incurred costs to comply with these laws, including research and development costs, costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components and costs associated with writing off noncompliant inventory. we expect to incur more of these costs in the future. with respect to the eu rohs, we and our competitors rely on an exemption for lead in network infrastructure equipment. it is possible this exemption will be revoked in the near future. if this exemption is revoked, if there are other changes to these laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. the eu has also adopted the weee directive, which requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. although currently our eu international channel partners are responsible for the requirements of this directive as the importer of record in most of the european countries in which we sell our products, changes in interpretation of the regulations may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements in the future to meet in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. our failure to comply with these and future environmental rules and regulations could result in reduced sales of our products, increased costs, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions. a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to governmental entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. sales to u.s. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to governmental entities. sales to governmental entities are subject to a number of risks. selling to governmental entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will win a sale. government demand, sales, and payment for our products and services may be negatively impacted by numerous factors and requirements unique to selling to government agencies, such as: public sector budgetary cycles, 18 table of contents funding authorizations and requirements unique to government agencies, with funding or purchasing reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products, geopolitical matters, and rules and regulations applicable to certain government sales. the rules and regulations applicable to government sales may also negatively impact sales to non-governmental entities. to date we have had limited traction in sales to u.s. federal government agencies, and any future sales to governmental entities is uncertain. all of our sales to governmental entities have been made indirectly through our distribution channel. governmental entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. for example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such governmental entity, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such distributor. governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors' administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way. finally, purchases by the u.s. government may require certain products to be manufactured in the united states and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the u.s. government. false detection of viruses or security breaches or false identification of spam or spyware could adversely affect our business. our antivirus and our intrusion prevention services may falsely detect viruses or other threats that do not actually exist. this risk is heightened by the inclusion of a heuristics feature in our products, which attempts to identify viruses and other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies that may indicate that a particular item is a threat. when our end-customers enable the heuristics feature in our products, the risk of falsely identifying viruses and other threats significantly increases. these false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. also, our anti-spam and antispyware services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent anti-spam or spyware products. parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. in addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may reduce the adoption of our products. if our system restricts important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect end-customers' systems and cause material system failures. any such false identification of important files or applications could result in negative publicity, loss of end-customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem, and costly litigation. if our internal network system is compromised by computer hackers, public perception of our products and services will be harmed. we will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective network security protection. because we provide network security products, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers. although we have not experienced significant damages from unauthorized access by a third party of our internal network, if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our internal systems it could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services. in addition, such a security breach could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide subscription and support services to our end-customers. if this happens, our revenue could decline and our business could suffer. our ability to sell our products is dependent on the quality of our technical support services, and our failure to offer high quality technical support services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. once our products are deployed within our end-customers' networks, our end-customers depend on our technical support services, as well as the support of our channel partners, to resolve any issues relating to our products. if we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. many enterprise, service provider and governmental entity end-customers require higher levels of support than smaller end- 19 table of contents customers. if we fail to meet the requirements of the larger end-customers, it may be more difficult to execute on our strategy to increase our penetration with larger end-customers. as a result, our failure to maintain high quality support services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in the research and development tax credit laws; transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development and legal structure; an increase in non-deductible expenses for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; a decrease in the stock option exercises by our employees in some of our foreign subsidiaries that can cause an adverse transfer pricing adjustment; tax costs related to intercompany realignments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax provision for the period in which the settlement takes place; a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings; changes in accounting principles; or changes in tax laws and regulations including possible changes in the united states to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules, or changes to the u.s. income tax rate, which would necessitate a revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) standard. in addition, the standard applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain foreign countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. although we currently do not have a valuation allowance, we may in the future be required to establish one. we will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. 20 table of contents forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. if the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimated, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. the taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. in addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. if tax authorities challenge the relative mix of u.s. and international income, our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected. while we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. in order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies and intellectual property, such as patents. if we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product, technology or intellectual property into our existing business and operations. we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, intellectual property or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues. in addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may not be accretive to earnings and may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in write-offs that could be substantial. acquisitions during a quarter may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations for that period or future periods compared to the results that we have previously forecasted or achieved. further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating acquired businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property could significantly divert management time and resources. our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. our products are very complex and, despite testing prior to their release, have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. product errors have affected the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our end-customers' willingness to buy products from us, and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant end-customers, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. as a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products, and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur 21 table of contents significant expenses. the occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the united states or other countries. the sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. we maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. in addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management's time and other resources. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as civil unrest and terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, a flood, or significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. in addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors, suppliers or logistics providers' ability to perform services such as obtaining product components and manufacturing products on a timely basis and assisting with shipments on a timely basis. in the event our or our service providers' information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. in addition, regional instability, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners, or end-customers or the economy as a whole. given our typical concentration of sales at each quarter end, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. all of the aforementioned risks may be augmented if the disaster recovery plans for us and our suppliers prove to be inadequate. to the extent that any of the above results in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the delay in the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. risks related to our industry the network security market is rapidly evolving and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing end-customer needs, our competitive position and prospects will be harmed. the network security market is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. moreover, many of our end-customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly complex enterprise networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. in addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, while minimizing the impact on network performance. additionally, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new hardware architectures and asics that involve complex, expensive and time consuming research and development processes. although the market expects rapid introduction of new products or product enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain and there can be long time periods between releases and availability of new products. we have in the past and may in the future experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and services and fail to meet previously announced timetables for such availability. if we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our end-customers by developing and releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and services or enhancements that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. our url database for our web filtering service may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth of urls and may not categorize websites in accordance with our end-customers ' expectations. the success of our web filtering service depends on the breadth and accuracy of our url database. although our url database currently catalogs millions of unique urls, it contains only a portion of the urls for all of the websites that are available on the internet. in addition, the total number of urls and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth to continue in the future. accordingly, we must identify and categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate. our database and technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of websites, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious 22 table of contents code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the internet. further, the ongoing evolution of the internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our web filtering function. any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the internet will impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn will harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our web filtering service may not be successful in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our end-customers' expectations. we rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize websites and software applications in our proprietary databases. our end-customers may not agree with our determinations that particular urls should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. in addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place material that is objectionable or that presents a security risk in categories that are generally unrestricted by our customers' internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. conversely, we may miscategorize websites such that access is denied to websites containing information that is important or valuable to our customers. any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. any failure to effectively categorize and filter websites according to our end-customers' and channel partners' expectations will impair the growth of our business. if our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. we spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new products and enhanced versions of our existing products to incorporate additional features, improved functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers' rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. when we develop a new product or an enhanced version of an existing product, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing our new products or enhancements to the market; failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; failure of our sales force and partners to focus on selling new products; inability to interoperate effectively with the networks or applications of our prospective end-customers; inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; defects, vulnerabilities, errors or failures or any perceived possible defects, vulnerabilities, errors or failures; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay it purchases; easing of regulatory requirements around security; and reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. 23 table of contents unless we continue to develop better market awareness of our company and our products, our revenue may not continue to grow. increased market awareness of our capabilities and products is essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large enterprise, service provider and governmental entities markets. we have historically had relatively low spending on certain marketing activities, and, if our marketing programs are not successful in creating market awareness of our company and products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. demand for utm products may be limited by market perception that utm products are inferior to network security solutions from multiple vendors. sales of most of our products depend on increased demand for utm products. if the utm market fails to grow as we anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. target customers may view utm all-in-one solutions as inferior to security solutions from multiple vendors because of, among other things, their perception that utm products provide security functions from only a single vendor and do not allow users to choose best-of-breed defenses from among the wide range of dedicated security applications available. target customers might also perceive that, by combining multiple security functions into a single platform, utm solutions create a single point of failure in their networks, which means that an error, vulnerability or failure of the utm product may place the entire network at risk. in addition, the market perception that utm solutions may be suitable only for small and medium sized businesses because utm lacks the performance capabilities and functionality of other solutions may harm our sales to large enterprise, service provider, and governmental entity end-customers. if the foregoing concerns and perceptions become prevalent, even if there is no factual basis for these concerns and perceptions, or if other issues arise with the utm market in general, demand for utm products could be severely limited, which would limit our growth and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. further a successful and publicized targeted attack against us or another well known utm vendor exposing a single point of failure could significantly increase these concerns and perceptions and may harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in our market and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. the market for network security products is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. our competitors include networking companies such as cisco and juniper, security vendors such as check point, mcafee (acquired by intel), sonicwall (acquired by dell) and palo alto networks, and other point solution security vendors. many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as: greater name recognition and longer operating histories; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers; access to larger customer bases; greater customer support resources; greater resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus and are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets. therefore, these competitors will not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of network security threat are often able to deliver these specialized network security products to the market more quickly than we can. some of our smaller competitors are using third-party chips designed to 24 table of contents accelerate performance. conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. in addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources, such as juniper's acquisition of netscreen technologies inc., intel's acquisition of mcafee, check point's acquisition of nokia corporations' security appliance business and dell's acquisition of sonicwall. as a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. due to budget constraints or economic downturns, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing network security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with our solutions. these competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. if functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our appliances to their network, which would have an adverse effect on our business. large, well-established providers of networking equipment such as cisco and juniper offer, and may continue to introduce, network security features that compete with our products, either in stand-alone security products or as additional features in their network infrastructure products. the inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our security solutions in networking products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. furthermore, even if the functionality offered by network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor such as us. many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of networking products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from other vendors such as us. in addition, an organization's existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only network security products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. if organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our products without compensating us. we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or products. any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. patent applications in the united states are typically not published until at least 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. in addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the united states may bring into question the validity of certain software patents and may make it more difficult and costly to prosecute patent applications. as a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or effectively enforce our issued patents. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. policing unauthorized use of our technology or products is difficult. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the united states. from time to time, legal action by us 25 table of contents may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and products protected other than by patent rights), we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. our products contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including the gnu public license, the gnu lesser public license (lgpl), the bsd license, the apache license and others. from time to time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants' intellectual property rights. we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by united states courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, to re-engineer our products, or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other litigation matters could harm our business. patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network security industry. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us. they may also assert such claims against our end-customers or channel partners whom we typically indemnify against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. any claim of infringement by a third-party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. in addition, litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable, and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we are subject to lawsuits claiming patent infringement, and there are lawsuits claiming patent infringement currently pending, as discussed in the section entitled legal proceedings in part i, item 3 of this annual report on form 10-k. we are also subject to other litigation in addition to patent infringement claims, such as employment-related litigation and disputes, general commercial litigation, and other forms of litigation and disputes, including stockholder litigation. if we are unsuccessful in defending any such claims, our operating results and financial condition and results may be 26 table of contents materially and adversely affected. for example, we may be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling certain of our products. litigation, with or without merit, could negatively impact our business, reputation, and sales in a material fashion. in addition to the lawsuits described in legal proceedings, several other non-practicing patent holding companies have sent us letters proposing that we license certain of their patents, and given this and the proliferation of lawsuits in our industry and other similar industries by both non-practicing entities and operating entities, we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. the cost to defend such lawsuits and any adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on the availability of third-party licenses. many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. risks related to ownership of our common stock as a public company, we are subject to compliance initiatives that will require substantial time from our management and result in significantly increased costs that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, as well as other rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq stock market, impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. these and proposed corporate governance laws and regulations under consideration may further increase our compliance costs. if compliance with these various legal and regulatory requirements diverts our management's attention from other business concerns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. we completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2012 as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of december 31, 2012 , our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in 2013 or future periods. if our internal controls or disclosure controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as changes to standards related to the increased use of fair value measure, financial instruments, and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ), could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. if we do not ensure that our systems and processes are aligned with the new standards, we could encounter difficulties generating quarterly and annual financial statements in a timely manner, which would have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to meet our reporting obligations. if securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. if we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. 27 table of contents the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. the market price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this periodic report, and other factors such as rumors or fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. for example, in the year ended december 31, 2012, the price of our common stock ranged from $17.81 to $28.44. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. our failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. we expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. if we need to raise additional funds in the future, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. if we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per-share value of our common stock could decline. furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of debt would have priority over the holders of common stock and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. we may also be required to take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the stockholders and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. if we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: develop or enhance our products and services; continue to expand our sales and marketing and research and development organizations; acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; expand operations, in the united states or internationally; hire, train and retain employees; or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. our failure to do any of these things could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. our corporate governance documents include provisions: providing for a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; 28 table of contents limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate fluctuation risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, money market funds, government and corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit. the risk associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio. a 10% decrease in interest rates in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 would have resulted in a decrease in our interest income of $0.5 million, $0.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively. foreign currency exchange risk our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency translation risk. however, a substantial portion of our operating expenses incurred outside the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the cad. to help protect against significant fluctuations in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we engage in foreign currency risk management activities to hedge balance sheet items denominated in cad. we do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. all of the derivative instruments are with high quality financial institutions, and we monitor the creditworthiness of these parties. these contracts typically have maturities between one and three months. we record changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts related to balance sheet accounts as other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. we recognized an expense of $0.5 million in other expense, net in fiscal 2012 due to foreign currency transaction losses. our hedging activities are intended to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. as our hedging activities are relatively short-term in nature, long-term material changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus the cad, euro (eur), british pound (gbp), and japanese yen (jpy) could adversely impact our operating expenses in the future. inflation risk our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are not affected significantly by inflation because they are short-term. we believe the impact of inflation on replacement costs of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. the rate of inflation, however, affects our cost of revenue and expenses, such as those for employee compensation, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of products and services offered by us. 58 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. investors should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose some or all of their investment. risks related to our business our quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including: the level of demand for our products and services; the timing of channel partner and end-customer orders and our reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of each quarter; the timing of shipments, which may depend on many factors such as inventory levels and logistics, our ability to ship new products on schedule and to accurately forecast inventory requirements, and potential delays in the manufacturing process; inventory imbalances, such as those related to new products and the end of life of existing products; the mix of products sold, the mix of revenue between products and services and the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of our channel partners and end-customers; seasonal buying patterns of our end-customers; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, which may be affected by both the mix of sales by our sell-in versus our sell-through channel partners, and by the extent to which we bring on new distributors; the accuracy and timing of point of sale reporting by our sell-through distributors, which impacts our ability to recognize revenue; the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; changes in end-customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs and buying practices and patterns; changes in the growth rate of the network security or utm markets; the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors or end-customers; deferral of orders from end-customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our expenses are incurred and paid in currencies other than the u.s. dollar; 8 table of contents decisions by potential end-customers to purchase network security solutions from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; price competition, and increased competitiveness in general in our market; changes in customer renewal rates for our services; changes in the payment terms of services contracts or the length of services contracts sold; increased expenses, unforeseen liabilities or write-downs and any impact on results of operations from any acquisition consummated; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our products and services; disruptions in our channel or termination of our relationship with important channel partners; insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our key suppliers, which could disrupt our supply chain; general economic conditions, both in our domestic and foreign markets; and future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies. any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial and other operating results. this variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. if we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. in addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue trends. accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. in addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. weak global economic conditions, weak economic conditions in certain geographies, or a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macro-economic conditions, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our channel partners, reduced unit sales and slower or little to no growth. our billings and revenue growth may slow or may not continue. billings and revenue growth may slow, or we may experience a decrease in billings and revenue, for a number of reasons, including a slowdown in demand for our products or services, an increase in competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, softness in demand in certain geographies, or if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. for example, we experienced lower than expected billings during the first quarter of 2013 due to a number of factors, including decreased sales in the service provider market and slower sales in latin america, and europe, middle east and africa ( emea ). our expenses as a percentage of total revenue may be higher than expected if our revenue is lower than expectations, and we may not be able to sustain profitability in future periods if we fail to increase billings, revenue or deferred revenue, do not appropriately manage our cost structure, or encounter unanticipated liabilities. any failure by us to maintain profitability and continue our billings and revenue growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. we rely significantly on revenue from subscription and support services which may decline, and because we recognize revenue from subscription and support services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales of subscription and support services are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. our subscription and support services revenue has historically accounted for a significant percentage of our total revenue. sales of new or renewal subscription and support services contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number 9 table of contents of factors, including end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers' spending levels. if our sales of new or renewal subscription and support services contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business will suffer. in addition, in the event significant customers require payment terms for subscription or support services in arrears or for shorter periods of time than annually, such as monthly or quarterly, this may negatively impact subscription and support revenue. furthermore, we recognize subscription and support services revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically from one to three years, but in some instances has been as long as five years. as a result, much of the subscription and support services revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from subscription and support services contracts entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscription or support services contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our subscriptions or support services is not reflected in full in our statements of operations until future periods. our subscription and support services revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal support services contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. we generate a majority of revenue from sales to distributors, resellers and end-customers outside of the united states, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. we market and sell our products throughout the world and have established sales offices in many parts of the world. therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. we are also subject to a number of risks typically associated with international sales and operations, including: economic or political instability in foreign markets; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; changes in regulatory requirements; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; costs of compliance with foreign policies, laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such policies, laws and regulations; costs of complying with u.s. laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, and economic sanctions; other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales and sales-related arrangements that may result in disruption in the sales team through terminations of employment or otherwise, and may adversely impact financial results as compared to those already reported or the forecasted results and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; our ability to effectively implement and maintain adequate internal controls to properly manage our international sales and operations; the potential for political unrest, terrorism, hostilities, war, or natural disasters; management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. product and service sales may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. further, we may be unable to keep up-to-date with changes in government requirements as they change from time to 10 table of contents time. failure to comply with these regulations could result in adverse effects to our business. in many foreign countries it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties, or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we are not successful in continuing to execute our strategy to increase our sales to larger end-customers, our results of operations may suffer. an important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of our products to large enterprises, service providers and governmental entities. sales to enterprises, service providers and governmental entities involve risks that may not be present (or that are present to a lesser extent) with sales to small-to-mid-sized entities. these risks include: increased competition from competitors, such as cisco systems, inc. ( cisco ), sourcefire, inc. ( sourcefire ) (acquired by cisco), check point software technologies ltd. ( check point ), mcafee, inc. ( mcafee ) (acquired by intel corporation ( intel )), blue coat systems, inc. ("blue coat"), fireeye, inc., palo alto networks, inc. ( palo alto networks ), sonicwall, inc. ( sonicwall ) (acquired by dell inc. ( dell )), juniper networks, inc. ( juniper ), and stonesoft corporation ( stonesoft ) (acquired by mcafee) that traditionally target enterprises, service providers and governmental entities and that may already have purchase commitments from those end-customers; increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end-customers in negotiating contractual arrangements; unanticipated changes in the capital resources of or purchasing behavior of large end-customers, including changes in the volume and frequency of their purchases; more stringent support requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, more complex customer requirements, and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; and longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end-customer that elects not to purchase our products and services. large enterprises, service providers and governmental entities often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases over 12 months. although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with our distributors and resellers in connection with sales to larger end-customers. due to the lengthy nature, the size and scope, and stringent requirements of these evaluations, we typically provide evaluation products to these customers. we may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without being successful in producing any sales. if we are unsuccessful in converting these evaluations into sales, we may experience an increased inventory of used products and potentially increased write-offs. in addition, product purchases by enterprises, service providers and governmental entities are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. furthermore, service providers represent our largest industry vertical and consolidation or changes in buying behavior by larger customers within this industry could negatively impact our business. finally, enterprises, service providers and governmental entities typically have longer implementation cycles, require greater product functionality and scalability and a broader range of services, including design services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, sometimes require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition, and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. all these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. if sales expected from a large end-customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. insufficient inventory may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. managing our inventory is complex. our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, return products or take advantage of price protection (if any is available to the 11 table of contents particular partner), or delay orders in anticipation of new products. they also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-customer demand. furthermore, if the time required to manufacture certain products or ship products increases for any reason, this could result in inventory shortfalls. management of our inventory is further complicated by the significant number of different products and models that we sell. in addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our results of operations. our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage inventory. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. alternatively, insufficient inventory levels may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-customers turn to competitors' products that are readily available. for example, we experienced inventory shortages in the first quarter of 2013 due to more demand for certain products than we had forecasted. if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our channel partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute on our business plan, and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. the loss of services of members of senior management, particularly ken xie, our co-founder and chief executive officer and michael xie, our co-founder, president and chief technology officer, and any of our senior sales leaders or functional area leaders, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. for example, our prior chief financial officer and chief operating officer departed in december 2013. in addition, key personnel may be distracted by activities unrelated to our business. the loss of the services, or distraction, of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering and sales, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we experience turnover in our management-level personnel. none of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. competition for highly-skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel: the san francisco bay area, vancouver, canada and beijing, china. we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. the average sales prices of our products may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and adversely impact our financial results and the trading price of our common stock. the average sales prices for our products may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts we offer, a change in our mix of products, anticipation of the introduction of new products or promotional programs. competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or may bundle them with other products. additionally, although we price our products and services worldwide in u.s. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions may negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions. furthermore, we anticipate that the average sales prices and gross profits for our products will decrease over product life cycles. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices and gross profits at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. 12 table of contents reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our billings and revenue to fall below expected levels. as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas, we have historically received a substantial portion of each quarter's sales orders and generated a substantial portion of each quarter's billings and revenue during the last two weeks of the quarter. for example, on average over the past eight quarters, our shipments during the last two weeks of each quarter accounted for approximately 36% of aggregate billings for each quarter. if expected orders at the end of any quarter are delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, our logistics partners' inability to ship products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the quarter, our failure to manage inventory to meet demand, our inability to release new products on schedule, any failure of our systems related to order review and processing, or any delays in shipments based on trade compliance requirements, our billings and revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. we rely on third-party channel partners to generate substantially all of our revenue. if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited, and if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results will be harmed. substantially all of our revenue is generated through sales by our channel partners, which include distributors and resellers. we depend upon our channel partners to generate sales opportunities and manage the sales process. to the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with, and retain, a sufficient number of high quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, and keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and operating results will be harmed. the termination of our relationship with any significant channel partner may adversely impact our sales and operating results. we provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them in selling our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. in addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services. our channel partners generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. they may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products. they may also have incentives to promote our competitors' products to the detriment of our own. they may cease selling our products altogether. we cannot assure you that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement partners or that existing channel partners will continue to perform. the loss of one or more of our significant channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter through them could harm our operating results. in addition, any new sales channel partner will require extensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end-customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. if we fail to optimize our channel partner model or fail to manage existing sales channels, our business will be seriously harmed. actual, possible or perceived defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, the failure of our products or services to prevent a virus or security breach, or misuse of our products could harm our reputation and divert resources. because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our customers. defects or vulnerabilities may impede or block network traffic or cause our products or services to be vulnerable to electronic break-ins or cause them to fail to help secure networks. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. in addition, defects or errors in our fortiguard subscription updates or our fortigate appliances could result in a failure of our fortiguard services to effectively update end-customers' fortigate appliances and thereby leave customers vulnerable to attacks. furthermore, our solutions may also fail to detect or prevent viruses, worms or similar threats due to a number of reasons such as the evolving nature of such threats and the continual emergence of new threats that we may fail to add to our fortiguard databases in time to protect our end-customers' networks. our fortiguard or forticare data centers and networks may also experience technical failures and downtime, and may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or fail to meet the increased requirements of a growing customer base. any such technical failure, downtime, or failures in general may temporarily or permanently expose our end-customers' networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. an actual, possible or perceived security breach or infection of the network of one of our end-customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services to prevent the security breach, could adversely affect the market's perception of our security products and services. we may not be able to correct any security flaws or 13 table of contents vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. our products may also be misused by end-customers or third parties who obtain access to our products. for example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the internet. such use of our products for censorship could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, even if we take reasonable measures to prevent any improper shipment of our products or if our products are provided by an unauthorized third-party. any actual, possible, or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, or misuse of our products, could result in: expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work-around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; loss of existing or potential end-customers or channel partners; delayed or lost revenue; delay or failure to attain market acceptance; negative publicity, which will harm our reputation; and litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation. our business and operations have experienced growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results will be negatively affected. our business has grown over the last several years. we rely heavily on information technology systems to help manage critical functions such as order processing, revenue recognition, financial forecasts, inventory and supply chain management and trade compliance reviews. however, we have been slow to adopt and implement certain automated functions, which could have a negative impact on our business. for example, a large part of our order processing relies on the manual processing of emails internally and from our customers. combined with the fact that we may receive a majority of our orders in the last few weeks of any given quarter, a significant interruption in our email service or other systems could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased revenue for that quarter. to manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. we may not be able to successfully implement requisite improvements to these systems, controls and processes, such as system access and change management controls, in a timely or efficient manner. we are moving our u.s. headquarters at the end of february, which move could cause system and other disruption. we are also in the planning stages for a new enterprise resource planning system and when the new system is implemented, such change may cause disruption and additional cost. in addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. our productivity and the quality of our products and services may be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our results of operations. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation expense, valuation of inventory, warranty liabilities, goodwill and other long-lived assets, investments, and accounting for income taxes. 14 table of contents we offer retroactive price protection to certain of our major distributors, and if we fail to balance their inventory with end-customer demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we provide certain of our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. if we reduce the list price of our products, certain distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the levels of our major distributors' inventories. if future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. because we depend on several third-party manufacturers to build our products, we are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers, and third-party manufacturing cost increases could result in lower gross margins. we outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to a variety of contract manufacturing partners and original design manufacturing partners. our reliance on our third-party manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs and product supply and timing. any manufacturing disruption by our third-party manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, increased manufacturing lead-times, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our business would be seriously harmed. these manufacturers fulfill our supply requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders. we have no long-term contracts or arrangements with certain of our third-party manufacturers that guarantee capacity, the continuation of particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for manufacturing services could be increased on short notice. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers would be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs which could adversely affect our gross margins. our individual product lines are generally manufactured by only one manufacturing partner. any production interruptions for any reason, such as a natural disaster, epidemic, capacity shortages, or quality problems, at one of our manufacturing partners would severely affect sales of our product lines manufactured by that manufacturing partner. furthermore manufacturing cost increases for any reason could result in lower gross margins. our proprietary fortiasic, which is the key to the performance of our appliances, is fabricated by contract manufacturers in foundries operated by umc and tsmc. faraday (using umc's foundry), k-micro (using tsmc's foundry) and renesas (using umc's foundry) manufacture our asics on a purchase order basis, and umc and tsmc do not guarantee any capacity and could reject orders from faraday, k-micro or renesas or could try to increase pricing. accordingly, the foundries are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and due to the long lead time that a new foundry would require, we could suffer temporary or long term inventory shortages of our fortiasic as well as increased costs. our suppliers may also prioritize orders by other companies that order higher volumes of products. if any of these suppliers materially delays its supply of asics or specific product models to us, or requires us to find an alternate supplier and we are not able to do so on a timely and reasonable basis, or if these foundries materially increase their prices for fabrication of our asics or specific product models, our business would be harmed. in addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries limits our control over environmental regulatory requirements such as the hazardous substance content of our products and therefore our ability to ensure compliance with the european union's ( eu ) restriction of hazardous substances directive ( rohs ) and other similar laws. it also exposes us to the risk that certain minerals and metals that originated in the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country, known as conflict minerals, are contained within our products. under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, the sec adopted new disclosure requirements for public companies using conflict minerals in their products. under these rules, we are required to perform due diligence, disclose and report our efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. our first conflict minerals report is due by may 31, 2014. as a result of these new rules, we have incurred and expect to incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the conflict minerals that may be used in our products. moreover, the implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products 15 table of contents to the extent that there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering conflict free minerals that can be used in our products. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to not purchase our products, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, we are susceptible to supply shortages, long lead times for components, and supply changes, each of which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers, result in inventory shortage, and may result in the loss of sales and customers, and increased component costs may result in lower gross margins. we and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key parts and components used in the manufacture of our products from limited sources of supply. we are therefore subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times in the supply of these components and the risk that component suppliers discontinue or modify components used in our products. we have in the past experienced, and are currently experiencing, shortages and long lead times for certain components. certain of our limited source components for particular appliances and suppliers of those components include: specific types of central processing units from intel, advanced micro devices, inc., and rmi/netlogic corporation, network chips from broadcom corporation, marvell technology group ltd. and intel, and hard drives from western digital technologies, inc. the introduction by component suppliers of new versions of their products, particularly if not anticipated by us or our contract manufacturers, could require us to expend significant resources to incorporate these new components into our products. in addition, if these suppliers were to discontinue production of a necessary part or component, we would be required to expend significant resources and time in locating and integrating replacement parts or components from another vendor. qualifying additional suppliers for limited source parts or components can be time-consuming and expensive. our manufacturing partners have experienced long lead times for the purchase of components incorporated into our products. lead times for components may be adversely impacted by factors outside of our control, such as natural disasters and other factors. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts or components when required; financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers; infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; price increases; failure of a component to meet environmental or other regulatory requirements; failure to meet delivery obligations in a timely fashion; and failure in component quality. the occurrence of any of these events would be disruptive to us and could seriously harm our business. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our distributors, resellers and end-customers. this could harm our relationships with our channel partners and end-customers and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, increased component costs could result in lower gross margins. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. a majority of our operating expenses is incurred outside the united states. these expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the euro and canadian dollar. although we have been hedging currency exposures relating to certain balance sheet accounts and have periodically entered into cash flow hedges relating to certain operating expenses incurred outside of the united states, if we stop hedging against any of these risks or if our attempts to hedge against these currency exposures are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore, while substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency 16 table of contents risk, it does not serve as a hedge to our foreign currency-denominated operating expenses. in addition, a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the united states, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability, restriction on sales, and/or impair our ability to compete in international markets. because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, certain of our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the u.s. only with the required export license or through an export license exception. if we were to fail to comply with u.s. export licensing, u.s. customs regulations and import regulations, u.s. economic sanctions and other countries' import and export laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. in addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, for orders placed by partners as stocking orders for example, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties and we may not be able to provide support related to appliances shipped pursuant to such orders. obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. furthermore, u.s. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to u.s. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to u.s. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners, despite such precautions. any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations and penalties and reputational harm. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting/licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include the eu, rohs and the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive ( weee directive ) as well as the implementing legislation of the eu member states. similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in china, south korea, norway and japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the united states, and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban the use of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. we have incurred costs to comply with these laws, including research and development costs, costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components and costs associated with writing off noncompliant inventory. we expect to continue to incur costs related to environmental laws and regulations in the future. with respect to the eu rohs, we and our competitors rely on an exemption for lead in network infrastructure equipment. it is possible this exemption will be revoked in the near future. if this exemption is revoked, if there are other changes to these laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. the eu has also adopted the weee directive, which requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. although currently our eu international channel partners are responsible for the requirements of this directive as the importer of record in most of the european countries in which we sell our products, changes in interpretation of the regulations may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements in the future to meet in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. 17 table of contents our failure to comply with these and future environmental rules and regulations could result in reduced sales of our products, increased costs, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions. a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to governmental entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. sales to u.s. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to governmental entities. sales to governmental entities are subject to a number of risks. selling to governmental entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will win a sale. government demand, sales, and payment for our products and services may be negatively impacted by numerous factors and requirements unique to selling to government agencies, such as: public sector budgetary cycles, funding authorizations and requirements unique to government agencies, with funding or purchasing reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products, geopolitical matters, and rules and regulations applicable to certain government sales. the rules and regulations applicable to government sales may also negatively impact sales to non-governmental entities. to date we have had limited traction in sales to u.s. federal government agencies, and any future sales to governmental entities is uncertain. all of our sales to governmental entities have been made indirectly through our distribution channel. governmental entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. for example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such governmental entity, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such distributor. governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors' administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way. finally, purchases by the u.s. government may require certain products to be manufactured in the united states and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the u.s. government. false detection of viruses or security breaches or false identification of spam or spyware could adversely affect our business. our antivirus and our intrusion prevention services may falsely detect viruses or other threats that do not actually exist. this risk is heightened by the inclusion of a heuristics feature in our products, which attempts to identify viruses and other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies that may indicate that a particular item is a threat. when our end-customers enable the heuristics feature in our products, the risk of falsely identifying viruses and other threats significantly increases. these false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. also, our anti-spam and anti-malware services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent anti-spam or spyware products. parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. in addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may reduce the adoption of our products. if our system restricts important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect end-customers' systems and cause material system failures. any such false identification of important files or applications could result in negative publicity, loss of end-customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem, and costly litigation. 18 table of contents if our internal network system is compromised by computer hackers, public perception of our products and services will be harmed. we will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective network security protection. because we provide network security products, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers. although we have not experienced significant damages from unauthorized access by a third party of our internal network, if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our internal systems it could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services. in addition, such a security breach could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide subscription and support services to our end-customers. if this happens, our revenue could decline and our business could suffer. our ability to sell our products is dependent on the quality of our technical support services, and our failure to offer high quality technical support services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. once our products are deployed within our end-customers' networks, our end-customers depend on our technical support services, as well as the support of our channel partners, to resolve any issues relating to our products. if we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. many large end-customers, service provider and governmental entity end-customers require higher levels of support than smaller end-customers because of their more complex deployments. if we fail to meet the requirements of our larger end-customers, it may be more difficult to execute on our strategy to increase our penetration with enterprises, service providers and governmental entities. as a result, our failure to maintain high quality support services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in the research and development tax credit laws; transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development and legal structure; an increase in non-deductible expenses for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; a decrease in the stock option exercises by our employees in some of our foreign subsidiaries that can cause an adverse transfer pricing adjustment; tax costs related to intercompany realignments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax provision for the period in which the settlement takes place; a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings; changes in accounting principles; or 19 table of contents changes in tax laws and regulations including possible changes in the united states to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules, or changes to the u.s. income tax rate, which would necessitate a revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) standard. in addition, the standard applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain foreign countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. for example, the california franchise tax board is examining our tax returns for 2010 and 2011. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. although we currently do not have a valuation allowance, we may in the future be required to establish one. we will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. if the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimated, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. the taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. in addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. if tax authorities challenge the relative mix of u.s. and international income, our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected. while we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. in order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies and intellectual property, such as patents. if we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product, technology or intellectual property into our existing business and operations. we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, intellectual property or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with intellectual property, product quality or 20 table of contents product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues, and we may not accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition. in addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may be dilutive to revenue growth and earnings and may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in write-offs that could be substantial. acquisitions during a quarter may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations for that period or future periods compared to the results that we have previously forecasted or achieved. further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating acquired businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property could significantly divert management time and resources. our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. our products are very complex and, despite testing prior to their release, have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. product errors have affected the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our end-customers' willingness to buy products from us, and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant end-customers, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. as a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products, and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. the occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the united states or other countries. the sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. we maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. in addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management's time and other resources. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as civil unrest and terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, a flood, or significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. in addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors, suppliers or logistics providers' ability to perform services such as obtaining product components and manufacturing products on a timely basis and assisting with shipments on a timely basis. in the event our or our service providers' information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in us missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. in addition, regional instability, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners, or end-customers or the economy as a whole. given our typical concentration of sales at each quarter end, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. all of the aforementioned risks may be augmented if the disaster recovery plans for us and our suppliers prove to be inadequate. to the extent that any of the above results in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the delay in the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. risks related to our industry the network security market is rapidly evolving and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing end-customer needs, our competitive position and prospects will be harmed. the network security market is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. moreover, many of our end-customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly complex enterprise networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, 21 table of contents operating systems and networking protocols. in addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, while minimizing the impact on network performance. additionally, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new hardware architectures and asics that involve complex, expensive and time consuming research and development processes. although the market expects rapid introduction of new products or product enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain and there can be long time periods between releases and availability of new products. we have in the past and may in the future experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and services and fail to meet previously announced timetables for such availability. if we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our end-customers by developing and releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and services or enhancements that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. our url database for our web filtering service may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth of urls and may not categorize websites in accordance with our end-customers ' expectations. the success of our web filtering service depends on the breadth and accuracy of our url database. although our url database currently catalogs millions of unique urls, it contains only a portion of the urls for all of the websites that are available on the internet. in addition, the total number of urls and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth to continue in the future. accordingly, we must identify and categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate. our database and technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of websites, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the internet. further, the ongoing evolution of the internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our web filtering function. any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the internet could impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our web filtering service may not be successful in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our end-customers' expectations. we rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize websites and software applications in our proprietary databases. our end-customers may not agree with our determinations that particular urls should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. in addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place material that is objectionable or that presents a security risk in categories that are generally unrestricted by our customers' internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. conversely, we may miscategorize websites such that access is denied to websites containing information that is important or valuable to our customers. any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. any failure to effectively categorize and filter websites according to our end-customers' and channel partners' expectations could impair the growth of our business. if our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. we spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new products and enhanced versions of our existing products to incorporate additional features, improved functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers' rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. when we develop a new product or an enhanced version of an existing product, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing our new products or enhancements to the market; failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; failure of our sales force and partners to focus on selling new products; 22 table of contents inability to interoperate effectively with the networks or applications of our prospective end-customers; inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; actual or perceived defects, vulnerabilities, errors or failures; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay it purchases; easing of regulatory requirements around security; and reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. unless we continue to develop better market awareness of our company and our products and to improve lead generation, our revenue may not continue to grow. increased market awareness of our capabilities and products and increased lead generation are essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large enterprise, service provider and governmental entities markets. we have historically had relatively low spending on certain marketing activities, and, if our marketing programs are not successful in creating market awareness of our company and products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. demand for utm products may be limited by market perception that utm products are inferior to network security solutions from multiple vendors. sales of most of our products depend on increased demand for utm products. if the utm market fails to grow as we anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. target customers may view utm all-in-one solutions as inferior to security solutions from multiple vendors because of, among other things, their perception that utm products provide security functions from only a single vendor and do not allow users to choose best-of-breed defenses from among the wide range of dedicated security applications available. target customers might also perceive that, by combining multiple security functions into a single platform, utm solutions create a single point of failure in their networks, which means that an error, vulnerability or failure of the utm product may place the entire network at risk. in addition, the market perception that utm solutions may be suitable only for small and medium sized businesses because utm lacks the performance capabilities and functionality of other solutions may harm our sales to large enterprise, service provider, and governmental entity end-customers. if the foregoing concerns and perceptions become prevalent, even if there is no factual basis for these concerns and perceptions, or if other issues arise with the utm market in general, demand for utm products could be severely limited, which would limit our growth and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, a successful and publicized targeted attack against us or another well known utm vendor exposing a single point of failure could significantly increase these concerns and perceptions and may harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in our market and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. the market for network security products is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. our competitors include networking companies such as cisco and juniper, security vendors such as check point, mcafee (acquired by intel), sourcefire (acquired by cisco), stonesoft (acquired by mcafee), sonicwall (acquired by dell), blue coat, fireeye, and palo alto networks, and other point solution security vendors. many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as: greater name recognition and longer operating histories; 23 table of contents larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers; access to larger customer bases; greater customer support resources; greater resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus and are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets. therefore, these competitors will not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of network security threat are often able to deliver these specialized network security products to the market more quickly than we can. some of our smaller competitors are using third-party chips designed to accelerate performance. conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. in addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources (such as juniper's acquisition of netscreen technologies inc., intel's acquisition of mcafee, mcafee's acquisition of stonesoft, check point's acquisition of nokia corporations' security appliance business and dell's acquisition of sonicwall), and new competitors may arise pursuant to acquisitions of network security companies or divisions. as a result of such acquisitions, competition in our market may continue to increase and our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. due to budget constraints or economic downturns, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing network security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with our solutions. these competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. if functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our appliances to their network, which would have an adverse effect on our business. large, well-established providers of networking equipment such as cisco and juniper offer, and may continue to introduce, network security features that compete with our products, either in stand-alone security products or as additional features in their network infrastructure products. the inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our security solutions in networking products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. furthermore, even if the functionality offered by network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor such as us. many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of networking products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from other vendors such as us. in addition, an organization's existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only network security products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. if organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 24 table of contents risks related to intellectual property our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our products without compensating us. we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or products. any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. patent applications in the united states are typically not published until at least 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. in addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the united states may bring into question the validity of certain software patents and may make it more difficult and costly to prosecute patent applications. as a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or effectively enforce our issued patents. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. policing unauthorized use of our technology or products is difficult. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the united states. from time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and products protected other than by patent rights), we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. our products contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including the gnu public license, the gnu lesser public license (lgpl), the bsd license, the apache license and others. from time to time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants' intellectual property rights. we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by united states courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, to re-engineer our products, or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 25 table of contents claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other litigation matters could harm our business. patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network security industry. third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us. they may also assert such claims against our end-customers or channel partners whom we typically indemnify against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. any claim of infringement by a third-party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. in addition, litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable, and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we are subject to lawsuits claiming patent infringement, and there are lawsuits claiming patent infringement currently pending, as discussed in the section entitled legal proceedings in part i, item 3 of this annual report on form 10-k. we are also subject to other litigation in addition to patent infringement claims, such as employment-related litigation and disputes, general commercial litigation, and could become subject to other forms of litigation and disputes, including stockholder litigation. if we are unsuccessful in defending any such claims, our operating results and financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. for example, we may be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling certain of our products. litigation, with or without merit, could negatively impact our business, reputation, and sales in a material fashion. in addition to the lawsuits described in legal proceedings, several other non-practicing patent holding companies have sent us letters proposing that we license certain of their patents, and given this and the proliferation of lawsuits in our industry and other similar industries by both non-practicing entities and operating entities, we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. the cost to defend such lawsuits and any adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on the availability of third-party licenses. many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. risks related to ownership of our common stock as a public company, we are subject to compliance initiatives that will require substantial time from our management and result in significantly increased costs that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, as well as other rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq stock market, impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. these and proposed corporate governance laws and regulations under consideration may further increase our compliance costs. if compliance with these various legal and regulatory requirements diverts our management's attention from other business concerns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we assess the 26 table of contents effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. we completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2013 as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of december 31, 2013, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in 2014 or future periods. if our internal controls or disclosure controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as changes to standards related to revenue recognition, the increased use of fair value measure, financial instruments, and the potential requirement that u.s. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards, could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. if we do not ensure that our systems and processes are aligned with the new standards, we could encounter difficulties generating quarterly and annual financial statements in a timely manner, which would have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to meet our reporting obligations. if securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. if we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. the market price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this periodic report, and other factors such as rumors or fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. for example, in fiscal 2013, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $16.53 to $25.00. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. our corporate governance documents include provisions: providing for a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; 27 table of contents limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate fluctuation risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, money market funds, government and corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit. the risk associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio. a 10% decrease in interest rates in fiscal 2013 , 2012 and 2011 would have resulted in a decrease in our interest income by $0.5 million, $0.5 million, and $0.4 million, respectively. foreign currency exchange risk our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency translation risk. however, a substantial portion of our operating expenses incurred outside the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the canadian dollar (cad). to help protect against significant fluctuations in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we engage in foreign currency risk management activities to hedge balance sheet items denominated in cad. we do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. all of the derivative instruments are with high quality financial institutions, and we monitor the creditworthiness of these parties. these contracts typically have maturities between one and three months. we record changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts related to balance sheet accounts as other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. we recognized an expense of $1.5 million in other expense, net, in fiscal 2013 due to foreign currency transaction losses. our hedging activities are intended to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. as our hedging activities are relatively short-term in nature and are focused on cad, long-term material changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, such as the euro (eur), british pound (gbp), and japanese yen (jpy) could adversely impact our operating expenses in the future. we assessed the risk of loss in fair values from the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates. for foreign currency exchange rate risk, a 10% increase or decrease of foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a $1.7 million change in the value of our foreign currency cash accounts as of december 31, 2013. inflation risk our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are not affected significantly by inflation because they are short-term. we believe the impact of inflation on replacement costs of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. the rate of inflation, however, affects our cost 57 table of contents of revenue and expenses, such as those for employee compensation, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of products and services offered by us.risk factors 8 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. investors should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose some or all of their investment. risks related to our business our quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including: the level of demand for our products and services, which may render forecasts inaccurate; the timing of channel partner and end-customer orders and our reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of each quarter; the timing of shipments, which may depend on many factors such as inventory levels, logistics, shipping delays at ports or otherwise, our ability to ship new products on schedule and to accurately forecast inventory requirements, and potential delays in the manufacturing process; inventory imbalances, such as those related to new products and the end of life of existing products; the mix of products sold, the mix of revenue between products and services and the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of our channel partners and end-customers; seasonal buying patterns of our end-customers; timing and level of our investments in sales and marketing; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, which may be affected by both the mix of sales by our sell-in versus our sell-through channel partners, and the accuracy and timing of point of sale reporting by our sell-through channel partners, which impacts our ability to recognize revenue; the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; changes in end-customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs and buying practices and patterns; changes in the growth rate of the network security markets; the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors, partners, or end-customers; deferral of orders from end-customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our expenses are incurred and paid in currencies other than the u.s. dollar; 8 table of contents decisions by potential end-customers to purchase network security solutions from newer technology providers, from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; price competition, and increased competitiveness in general in our market; changes in customer renewal rates for our services; changes in the payment terms of services contracts or the length of services contracts sold; changes in our estimated annual effective tax rates; changes in circumstances and challenges in business conditions, including decreased demand, which may negatively impact our channel partners' ability to sell the current inventory they hold and negatively impact their future purchases of products from us; increased expenses, unforeseen liabilities or write-downs and any impact on results of operations from any acquisition consummated; our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions; disruptions in our channel or termination of our relationship with important channel partners; insolvency, credit, or other difficulties confronting our key suppliers or channel partners, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, which could disrupt our supply or distribution chain; general economic conditions, both in our domestic and foreign markets; and future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies. any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial and other operating results. this variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. if we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. in addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue trends. accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. in addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. weak global economic conditions, weak economic conditions in certain geographies, or a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macro-economic conditions, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our channel partners, reduced unit sales and slower or declining growth. our billings and revenue growth may slow or may not continue. billings and revenue growth may slow, or we may experience a decrease in billings and revenue, for a number of reasons, including a slowdown in demand for our products or services, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, softness in demand in certain geographies or industry verticals, such as the service provider industry, or if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. our expenses as a percentage of total revenue may be higher than expected if our revenue is lower than expected, and if our investments in sales and marketing and other functional areas do not result in expected billings and revenue growth, and we may not be able to sustain profitability in future periods if we fail to increase billings, revenue or deferred revenue, do not appropriately manage our cost structure, or encounter unanticipated liabilities. any failure by us to maintain profitability and continue our billings and revenue growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. 9 table of contents we rely significantly on revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services which may decline, and because we recognize revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales of fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue has historically accounted for a significant percentage of our total revenue. sales of new, or renewals of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in purchases of fortigate appliances, end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers' spending levels. if our sales of new, or renewals of existing fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business will suffer. in addition, in the event significant customers require payment terms for fortiguard security subscription or forticare technical support services in arrears or for shorter periods of time than annually, such as monthly or quarterly, this may negatively impact our billings and revenue. furthermore, we recognize fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically from one to three years, but in some instances has been as long as five years. as a result, much of the fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed fortiguard security subscription or forticare technical support services contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales of new, or renewals of existing, fortiguard security subscriptions or forticare technical support services is not reflected in full in our statements of operations until future periods. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal support services contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. we generate a majority of revenue from sales to distributors, resellers and end-customers outside of the united states, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. we market and sell our products throughout the world and have established sales offices in many parts of the world. therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. we are also subject to a number of risks typically associated with international sales and operations, including: economic or political instability in foreign markets; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; changes in regulatory requirements; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; costs of compliance with foreign policies, laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such policies, laws and regulations; protectionist policies and penalties, and local laws and requirements that may be adversely impact u.s. headquartered business's sales in certain countries outside of the united states; costs of complying with u.s. or other foreign laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act 2010, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, and economic sanctions; other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales or sales-related arrangements that could disrupt the sales team through terminations of employment or 10 table of contents otherwise, and may adversely impact financial results as compared to those already reported or forecasted and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; our ability to effectively implement and maintain adequate internal controls to properly manage our international sales and operations; the potential for political unrest, terrorism, hostilities, war, or natural disasters; management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. product and service sales may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. further, we may be unable to keep up-to-date with changes in government requirements as they change over time. failure to comply with these regulations could result in adverse effects to our business. in many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in litigation, regulatory action, costs of investigation, delays in revenue recognition, delays in financial reporting, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties, or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we are not successful in continuing to execute our strategy to increase our sales to larger end-customers, our results of operations may suffer. an important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of our products to large enterprises, service providers and government organizations. while we have experienced some success selling to service providers and enterprises, we have experienced less traction selling to certain government organizations and there can be no assurance that we will be successful selling to these customer segments. sales to enterprises, service providers and government organizations involve risks that may not be present (or that are present to a lesser extent) with sales to small-to-mid-sized entities. these risks include: increased competition from competitors that traditionally target enterprises, service providers and government organizations and that may already have purchase commitments from those end-customers; increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end-customers in negotiating contractual arrangements; unanticipated changes in the capital resources of or purchasing behavior of large end-customers, including changes in the volume and frequency of their purchases; more stringent support requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, more complex requirements, and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; and longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end-customer that elects not to purchase our products and services. large enterprises, service providers and government organizations often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases over 12 months. although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with end-customers, along with our distributors and resellers, in connection with sales to larger end-customers. due to the lengthy nature, the size and scope, and stringent requirements of these evaluations, we typically provide evaluation products to these customers. we may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without being successful in producing any sales. if we are unsuccessful in converting these evaluations into sales, we may experience an increased inventory of used products and potentially increased write-offs. in addition, product purchases by enterprises, service providers and government organizations are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. furthermore, service providers represent our largest industry vertical and consolidation or changes in buying behavior by larger customers within this industry could negatively impact our business. enterprises, service providers and government organizations typically have longer 11 table of contents implementation cycles, require greater product functionality and scalability and a broader range of services, including design services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, sometimes require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition, and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. all these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. if sales expected from a large end-customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. insufficient inventory may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. managing our inventory is complex. our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders or not place orders commensurate with our expectations if their inventory is too high, return products or take advantage of price protection (if any is available to the particular partner), or delay orders in anticipation of new products. they also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-customer demand. furthermore, if the time required to manufacture certain products or ship products increases for any reason, this could result in inventory shortfalls. management of our inventory is further complicated by the significant number of different products and models that we sell. in addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our results of operations. our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage inventory. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. alternatively, insufficient inventory levels may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-customers turn to competitors' products that are readily available. for example, we have in the past experienced inventory shortages due to more demand for certain products than we had forecasted. if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our channel partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute on our business plan, and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. the loss of services of members of senior management, particularly ken xie, our co-founder and chief executive officer and michael xie, our co-founder, president and chief technology officer, and any of our senior sales leaders or functional area leaders, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. the loss of the services, or distraction, of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering and sales, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we experience turnover in our management-level personnel. none of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. competition for highly-skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel such as the san francisco bay area and vancouver, canada. we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. the average sales prices of our products may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and adversely impact our financial results and the trading price of our common stock. the average sales prices for our products may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts we offer, a change in our mix of products, anticipation of the introduction of new products or promotional programs. competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. larger competitors with more diverse product offerings 12 table of contents may reduce the price of products that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or may bundle them with other products. additionally, although we price our products and services worldwide in u.s. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions may negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions. furthermore, we anticipate that the average sales prices and gross profits for our products will decrease over product life cycles. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices and gross profits at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our billings and revenue to fall below expected levels. as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas, we have historically received a substantial portion of each quarter's sales orders and generated a substantial portion of each quarter's billings and revenue during the last two weeks of the quarter. for example, on average over the past eight quarters, our shipments during the last two weeks of each quarter accounted for approximately 33% of aggregate billings for each quarter. if expected orders at the end of any quarter are delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, our logistics partners' inability to ship products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the quarter, our failure to manage inventory to meet demand, our inability to release new products on schedule, any failure of our systems related to order review and processing, any delays in shipments based on trade compliance requirements, or any shipment delays based on labor disputes at shipping ports, our billings and revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. unless we continue to develop better market awareness of our company and our products and to improve lead generation, our revenue may not continue to grow. increased market awareness of our capabilities and products and increased lead generation are essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large enterprise, service provider and government organization market. we have historically had relatively low spending on certain marketing activities. while we have recently been increasing our investments in sales and marketing, it is not clear that these investments will continue to result in increased revenues. if our investments in additional sales personnel or if our marketing programs are not successful in continuing to create market awareness of our company and products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. we rely on third-party channel partners to generate substantially all of our revenue. if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited, and if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results will be harmed. substantially all of our revenue is generated through sales by our channel partners, which include distributors and resellers. we depend upon our channel partners to generate sales opportunities and manage the sales process. to the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with, and retain, a sufficient number of high quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, and keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and operating results will be harmed. the termination of our relationship with any significant channel partner may adversely impact our sales and operating results. we provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them in selling our products and incentivize them to sell our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. in addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services and may purchase more inventory than they can sell. our channel partners generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions. in addition, if our channel partners' financial condition or operations weaken it could negatively impact their ability to sell our product and services. they may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products. they may also have incentives to promote our competitors' products to the detriment of our own. they may cease selling our products altogether. we cannot assure you that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement partners or that existing channel partners will continue to perform. the loss of one or more of our significant channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter through them could harm our operating results. during fiscal 2014, fiscal 2013, and fiscal 2012, exclusive networks group, which distributed our solutions to a large group of resellers and end-customers, accounted for 15%, 12%, and 11% of our total revenue, respectively. in addition, any new sales channel partner will require extensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and 13 table of contents reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end-customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. we depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. if we fail to optimize our channel partner model or fail to manage existing sales channels, our business will be seriously harmed. actual, possible or perceived defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, the failure of our products or services to prevent a virus or security breach, or misuse of our products could harm our reputation and divert resources. because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our customers. defects or vulnerabilities may impede or block network traffic or cause our products or services to be vulnerable to electronic break-ins or cause them to fail to help secure networks. we cannot ensure that our products will prevent all security threats. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. in addition, defects or errors in our fortiguard security subscription updates or our fortigate appliances could result in a failure of our fortiguard services to effectively update end-customers' fortigate appliances and thereby leave customers vulnerable to attacks. furthermore, our solutions may also fail to detect or prevent viruses, worms or similar threats due to a number of reasons such as the evolving nature of such threats and the continual emergence of new threats that we may fail to add to our fortiguard databases in time to protect our end-customers' networks. our fortiguard or forticare data centers and networks may also experience technical failures and downtime, and may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or fail to meet the increased requirements of our customer base. any such technical failure, downtime, or failures in general may temporarily or permanently expose our end-customers' networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. an actual, possible or perceived security breach or infection of the network of one of our end-customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services to prevent the security breach, could adversely affect the market's perception of our security products and services and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. we may not be able to correct any security flaws or vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. our products may also be misused by end-customers or third parties who obtain access to our products. for example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the internet. such use of our products for censorship could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, even if we take reasonable measures to prevent any improper shipment of our products or if our products are provided by an unauthorized third-party. any actual, possible, or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, or misuse of our products, could result in: expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work-around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; loss of existing or potential end-customers or channel partners; delayed or lost revenue; delay or failure to attain market acceptance; negative publicity, which will harm our reputation; and litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. our business and operations have experienced growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results will be negatively affected. our business has grown over the last several years. we rely heavily on information technology systems to help manage critical functions such as order processing, revenue recognition, financial forecasts, inventory and supply chain management and trade compliance reviews. certain of these systems were developed by us for our internal use and as such may have a higher risk of failure or not receive the same level of support as systems purchased from and supported by external technology companies. in addition, we have been slow to adopt and implement certain automated functions, which could have a negative impact on our business. for example, a large part of our order processing relies on the manual processing of emails internally and receipt of customer purchase orders through email and, to a lesser extent, through electronic data interchange 14 table of contents from our customers. combined with the fact that we may receive a majority of our orders in the last few weeks of any given quarter, a significant interruption in our email service or other systems could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased revenue for that quarter. to manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. we may not be able to successfully implement requisite improvements to these systems, controls and processes, such as system access and change management controls, in a timely or efficient manner. we purchased a new enterprise resource planning system during the second quarter of fiscal 2014. we are in the early stages of implementing the new system and, as a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs in connection with implementing the system. in addition, we may experience some disruption during the system implementation process. our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. in addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. our productivity and the quality of our products and services may also be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our results of operations. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation expense, valuation of inventory, warranty liabilities, goodwill and other long-lived assets, investments, accounting for income taxes, litigation and settlement costs and other loss contingencies, sales returns and allowances, reserve for bad debt, and the accounting for business combinations. we offer retroactive price protection to certain of our major distributors, and if we fail to balance their inventory with end-customer demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we provide certain of our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. if we reduce the list price of our products, certain distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the levels of our major distributors' inventories. if future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. because we depend on several third-party manufacturers to build our products, we are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers, and third-party manufacturing cost increases could result in lower gross margins. we outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to a variety of contract manufacturing partners and original design manufacturing partners. our reliance on our third-party manufacturers in asia and elsewhere reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs and product supply and timing. any manufacturing disruption by our third-party manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, increased manufacturing lead-times, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our business would be seriously harmed. 15 table of contents these manufacturers fulfill our supply requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders. we have no long-term contracts or arrangements with certain of our third-party manufacturers that guarantee capacity, the continuation of particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for manufacturing services could be increased on short notice. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers would be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs which could adversely affect our gross margins. our individual product lines are generally manufactured by only one manufacturing partner. any production or shipping interruptions for any reason, such as a natural disaster, epidemic, capacity shortages, quality problems, or strike or other labor disruption, at one of our manufacturing partners or shipping ports or locations would severely affect sales of our product lines manufactured by that manufacturing partner. furthermore manufacturing cost increases for any reason could result in lower gross margins. our proprietary fortiasic, which is the key to the performance of our appliances, is fabricated by contract manufacturers in foundries operated by umc and tsmc. faraday (using umc's foundry), k-micro (using tsmc's foundry) and renesas (using umc's foundry) manufacture our asics on a purchase order basis, and umc and tsmc do not guarantee any capacity and could reject orders from faraday, k-micro or renesas or could try to increase pricing. accordingly, the foundries are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and due to the long lead time that a new foundry would require, we could suffer temporary or long term inventory shortages of our fortiasic as well as increased costs. our suppliers may also prioritize orders by other companies that order higher volumes of products. if any of these suppliers materially delays its supply of asics or specific product models to us, or requires us to find an alternate supplier and we are not able to do so on a timely and reasonable basis, or if these foundries materially increase their prices for fabrication of our asics or specific product models, our business would be harmed. in addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries limits our control over environmental regulatory requirements such as the hazardous substance content of our products and therefore our ability to ensure compliance with the european union's ( eu ) restriction of hazardous substances directive ( rohs ) and other similar laws. it also exposes us to the risk that certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, that are contained in our products have originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. as a result of the passage of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, the sec adopted new disclosure requirements for public companies whose products contain conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of such products. under these rules, we are required to obtain sourcing data from suppliers, perform supply chain due diligence, and file annually with the sec a specialized disclosure report on form sd covering the prior calendar year. we have incurred and expect to incur additional costs to comply with the rules, including costs related to the determination of the origin, source and chain of custody of the conflict minerals used in our products and the adoption of conflict minerals-related governance policies, processes and controls. moreover, the implementation of these compliance measures could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products to the extent that there may be only a limited number of suppliers that are able to meet our sourcing requirements. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such materials in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to not purchase our products, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, we are susceptible to supply shortages, long lead times for components, and supply changes, each of which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers, result in inventory shortage, and may result in the loss of sales and customers, and increased component costs may result in lower gross margins. we and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key parts and components used in the manufacture of our products from limited sources of supply. we are therefore subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times in the supply of these components and the risk that component suppliers discontinue or modify components used in our products. we have in the past experienced, and are currently experiencing, shortages and long lead times for certain components. certain of our limited source components for particular appliances and suppliers of those components include: specific types of central processing units from intel, advanced micro devices, inc., and rmi/netlogic corporation, network chips from broadcom corporation, marvell technology group ltd. and intel, and hard drives from western digital technologies, inc. the introduction by component suppliers of new versions of their products, particularly if not anticipated by us or our contract manufacturers, could require us to expend significant resources to incorporate these new components into our products. in addition, if these suppliers were to discontinue production of a necessary part or component, we would be required to expend significant resources and time in locating and integrating replacement parts or components from another vendor. qualifying additional suppliers for limited source parts or components can be time-consuming and expensive. 16 table of contents our manufacturing partners have experienced long lead times for the purchase of components incorporated into our products. lead times for components may be adversely impacted by factors outside of our control, such as natural disasters and other factors. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts or components when required; financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers; infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; price increases; failure of a component to meet environmental or other regulatory requirements; failure to meet delivery obligations in a timely fashion; and failure in component quality. the occurrence of any of these events would be disruptive to us and could seriously harm our business. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our distributors, resellers and end-customers. this could harm our relationships with our channel partners and end-customers and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, increased component costs could result in lower gross margins. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. a majority of our operating expenses are incurred outside the united states. these expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the euro and canadian dollar. although we have been hedging currency exposures relating to certain balance sheet accounts, if we stop hedging against any of these risks or if our attempts to hedge against these currency exposures are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore, while substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk, it does not serve as a hedge to our foreign currency-denominated operating expenses. in addition, a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the united states, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability, restriction on sales, and/or impair our ability to compete in international markets. because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, certain of our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the united states only with the required export license or through an export license exception. if we were to fail to comply with u.s. export licensing, u.s. customs regulations and import regulations, u.s. economic sanctions and other countries' import and export laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. in addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, for orders placed by partners as stocking orders for example, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties and we may not be able to provide support related to appliances shipped pursuant to such orders. obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. furthermore, u.s. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to u.s. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to u.s. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners, despite such precautions. any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations and penalties and reputational harm. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting/licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with 17 table of contents international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include the eu, rohs and the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive ( weee directive ) as well as the implementing legislation of the eu member states. similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in china, south korea, norway and japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the united states, and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban the use of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. we have incurred costs to comply with these laws, including research and development costs, costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components and costs associated with writing off noncompliant inventory. we expect to continue to incur costs related to environmental laws and regulations in the future. with respect to the eu rohs, we and our competitors rely on an exemption for lead in network infrastructure equipment. it is possible this exemption will be revoked in the near future. if this exemption is revoked, if there are other changes to these laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. the eu has also adopted the weee directive, which requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. although currently our eu international channel partners are responsible for the requirements of this directive as the importer of record in most of the european countries in which we sell our products, changes in interpretation of the regulations may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements in the future to meet in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. our failure to comply with these and future environmental rules and regulations could result in reduced sales of our products, increased costs, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions. a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. sales to u.s. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to government organizations. sales to government organizations are subject to a number of risks. selling to government organizations can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense, with long sales cycles and without any assurance that we will win a sale. government demand, sales, and payment for our products and services may be negatively impacted by numerous factors and requirements unique to selling to government agencies, such as: public sector budgetary cycles, funding authorizations and requirements unique to government agencies, with funding or purchasing reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products, geopolitical matters, and rules and regulations applicable to certain government sales. 18 table of contents the rules and regulations applicable to sales to government organizations may also negatively impact sales to other organizations. to date, we have had limited traction in sales to u.s. federal government agencies, and any future sales to government organizations is uncertain. all of our sales to government organizations have been made indirectly through our distribution channel. government organizations may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. for example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such government organization, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such distributor. governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors' administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way. finally, purchases by the u.s. government may require certain products to be manufactured in the united states and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the u.s. government. false detection of viruses or security breaches or false identification of spam or spyware could adversely affect our business. our antivirus and our intrusion prevention services may falsely detect viruses or other threats that do not actually exist. this risk is heightened by the inclusion of a heuristics feature in our products, which attempts to identify viruses and other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies that may indicate that a particular item is a threat. when our end-customers enable the heuristics feature in our products, the risk of falsely identifying viruses and other threats significantly increases. these false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. also, our anti-spam and anti-malware services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent anti-spam or spyware products. parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. in addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may reduce the adoption of our products. if our system restricts important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect end-customers' systems and cause material system failures. any such false identification of important files or applications could result in negative publicity, loss of end-customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem, and costly litigation. if our internal network system is compromised by computer hackers, public perception of our products and services will be harmed. we will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective network security protection. because we provide network security products, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers. although we have not experienced significant damages from unauthorized access by a third party of our internal network, if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our internal systems it could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services. in addition, such a security breach could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services to our end-customers. if this happens, our revenue could decline and our business could suffer. our ability to sell our products is dependent on the quality of our technical support services, and our failure to offer high quality technical support services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. once our products are deployed within our end-customers' networks, our end-customers depend on our technical support services, as well as the support of our channel partners, to resolve any issues relating to our products. if we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. many large end-customers, service provider and government organization end-customers require higher levels of support than smaller end-customers because of their more complex deployments. if we fail to meet the requirements of our larger end-customers, it may be more difficult to execute on our strategy to increase our penetration with enterprises, service providers and government organizations. as a result, our failure to maintain high quality support services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 table of contents we could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, where a number of our subsidiaries are organized. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or withholding taxes; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in the research and development tax credit laws; transfer pricing adjustments; an increase in non-deductible expenses for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; tax costs related to intercompany realignments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our provision for income taxes for the period in which the settlement takes place; a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings; changes in accounting principles; or changes in tax laws and regulations including possible changes in the united states to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules, or changes to the u.s. income tax rate, which would necessitate a revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) standard. in addition, the standard applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain foreign countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we currently do not have a valuation allowance, we may in the future be required to establish one. we will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by 20 table of contents jurisdiction. if the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimated, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. the taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. in addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. if tax authorities challenge the relative mix of u.s. and international income, our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected. while we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. in order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies and intellectual property, such as patents. if we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product, technology or intellectual property into our existing business and operations. we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, intellectual property or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues, and we may not accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition. in addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may be dilutive to revenue growth and earnings and may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in impairment charges that could be substantial. for example, in the second quarter of 2014, we recognized an impairment charge of $2.4 million for intangible assets from our acquisition of coyote point systems, inc. acquisitions during a quarter may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations for that period or future periods compared to the results that we have previously forecasted or achieved. further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating acquired businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property could significantly divert management time and resources. our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. our products are very complex and, despite testing prior to their release, have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. product errors have affected the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our end-customers' willingness to buy products from us, and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant end-customers, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. as a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products, and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. the occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the 21 table of contents united states or other countries, and in some circumstances we may be required to indemnify a customer in full, without a limitation on liability, for certain liabilities, including potential liabilities that are not contractually limited. the sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. we maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not cover such claim at all or may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us, and in some instances may subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. in addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management's time and other resources. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as civil unrest, labor disruption, and terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, power outages, floods, or other catastrophic events could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. in addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors, suppliers or logistics providers' ability to perform services such as obtaining product components and manufacturing products on a timely basis and assisting with shipments on a timely basis. in the event our or our service providers' information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in us missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. in addition, regional instability, civil unrest, labor disruptions, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners, or end-customers or the economy as a whole. for example, recently, ports in the west coast of the united states have experienced work slowdowns related to ongoing union labor contract negotiations. given our typical concentration of sales at each quarter end, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. to the extent that any of the above results in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the delay in the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. risks related to our industry the network security market is rapidly evolving and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing end-customer needs, our competitive position and prospects will be harmed. the network security market is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. moreover, many of our end-customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly complex enterprise networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. in addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, while minimizing the impact on network performance. additionally, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new hardware architectures and asics that involve complex, expensive and time consuming research and development processes. although the market expects rapid introduction of new products or product enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain and there can be long time periods between releases and availability of new products. we have in the past and may in the future experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and services and fail to meet previously announced timetables for such availability. if we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our end-customers by developing and releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and services or enhancements that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. our url database for our web filtering service may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth of urls and may not categorize websites in accordance with our end-customers ' expectations. the success of our web filtering service depends on the breadth and accuracy of our url database. although our url database currently catalogs millions of unique urls, it contains only a portion of the urls for all of the websites that are available on the internet. in addition, the total number of urls and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth to continue in the future. accordingly, we must identify and categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate. our database and technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of websites, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the internet. further, 22 table of contents the ongoing evolution of the internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our web filtering function. any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the internet could impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our web filtering service may not be successful in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our end-customers' expectations. we rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize websites and software applications in our proprietary databases. our end-customers may not agree with our determinations that particular urls should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. in addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place material that is objectionable or that presents a security risk in categories that are generally unrestricted by our customers' internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. conversely, we may miscategorize websites such that access is denied to websites containing information that is important or valuable to our customers. any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. any failure to effectively categorize and filter websites according to our end-customers' and channel partners' expectations could impair the growth of our business. if our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. we spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new products and enhanced versions of our existing products to incorporate additional features, improved functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers' rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. when we develop a new product or an enhanced version of an existing product, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing our new products or enhancements to the market; failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; failure of our sales force and partners to focus on selling new products; inability to interoperate effectively with the networks or applications of our prospective end-customers; inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; actual or perceived defects, vulnerabilities, errors or failures; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay it purchases; easing of regulatory requirements around security; and reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. 23 table of contents demand for our products may be limited by market perception that individual products from one vendor that provide multiple layers of security protection in one product are inferior to point solution network security solutions from multiple vendors. sales of most of our products depend on increased demand for incorporating broad security functionality in one appliance. if the market for these products fails to grow as we anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. target customers may view all-in-one network security solutions as inferior to security solutions from multiple vendors because of, among other things, their perception that such products of ours provide security functions from only a single vendor and do not allow users to choose best-of-breed defenses from among the wide range of dedicated security applications available. target customers might also perceive that, by combining multiple security functions into a single platform, our solutions create a single point of failure in their networks, which means that an error, vulnerability or failure of our product may place the entire network at risk. in addition, the market perception that all-in-one solutions may be suitable only for small and medium sized businesses because such solution lacks the performance capabilities and functionality of other solutions may harm our sales to large enterprise, service provider, and government organization end-customers. if the foregoing concerns and perceptions become prevalent, even if there is no factual basis for these concerns and perceptions, or if other issues arise with our market in general, demand for multi-security functionality products could be severely limited, which would limit our growth and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, a successful and publicized targeted attack against us exposing a single point of failure could significantly increase these concerns and perceptions and may harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in our market and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. the market for network security products is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. our competitors include companies such as blue coat, check point, cisco, dell/sonicwall, f5 networks, fireeye, intel/mcafee, juniper, palo alto networks, and others. many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as: greater name recognition and longer operating histories; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers; access to larger customer bases; greater customer support resources; greater resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus and are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets. therefore, these competitors will not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of network security threat are often able to deliver these specialized network security products to the market more quickly than we can. some of our smaller competitors are using third-party chips designed to accelerate performance. conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. in addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources (such as juniper's acquisition of netscreen technologies inc., intel's acquisition of mcafee, mcafee's acquisition of stonesoft, check point's acquisition of nokia corporations' security appliance business and dell's acquisition of sonicwall), and new competitors may arise pursuant to acquisitions of network security companies or divisions. as a result of such acquisitions, competition in our market may 24 table of contents continue to increase and our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. due to budget constraints or economic downturns, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing network security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with our solutions. these competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. if functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our appliances to their network, which would have an adverse effect on our business. large, well-established providers of networking equipment such as cisco, f5 networks, and juniper offer, and may continue to introduce, network security features that compete with our products, either in stand-alone security products or as additional features in their network infrastructure products. the inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our security solutions in networking products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. furthermore, even if the functionality offered by network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor such as us. many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of networking products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from other vendors such as us. in addition, an organization's existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only network security products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. if organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our products without compensating us. we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or products. any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. patent applications in the united states are typically not published until at least 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. in addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the united states may bring into question the validity of certain software patents and may make it more difficult and costly to prosecute patent applications. as a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or effectively enforce our issued patents. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. policing unauthorized use of our technology or products is difficult. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the united states. from time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and products protected 25 table of contents other than by patent rights), we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. our products contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including the gnu public license, the gnu lesser public license (lgpl), the bsd license, the apache license and others. from time to time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants' intellectual property rights. we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by united states courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, to re-engineer our products, or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other litigation matters could harm our business. patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network security industry. third parties are currently asserting, have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us. they may also assert such claims against our end-customers or channel partners whom we typically indemnify against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. any claim of infringement by a third-party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. in addition, litigation may involve patent holding companies, non-practicing entities, or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable, and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we are subject to lawsuits claiming patent infringement. we are also subject to other litigation in addition to patent infringement claims, such as employment-related litigation and disputes, general commercial litigation, and could become subject to other forms of litigation and disputes, including stockholder litigation. if we are unsuccessful in defending any such claims, our operating results and financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. for example, we may be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling certain of our products. litigation, with or without merit, could negatively impact our business, reputation, and sales in a material fashion. we have several on-going patent lawsuits and, several non-practicing entity patent holding companies have sent us 26 table of contents letters proposing that we license certain of their patents. given this and the proliferation of lawsuits in our industry and other similar industries by both non-practicing entities and operating entities, we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. the cost to defend such lawsuits and any adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on the availability of third-party licenses. many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. risks related to ownership of our common stock as a public company, we are subject to compliance initiatives that will require substantial time from our management and result in significantly increased costs that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, as well as other rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq stock market, impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. these and proposed corporate governance laws and regulations under consideration may further increase our compliance costs. if compliance with these various legal and regulatory requirements diverts our management's attention from other business concerns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. we completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2014 as required by section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of december 31, 2014, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in fiscal 2015 or future periods. in may 2013, the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission ( coso ) issued an updated version of its internal control - integrated framework ( 2013 framework ), which was originally issued in 1992 to help organizations design, implement and evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls. as of december 31, 2014, we completed our transition to the 2013 framework. we expect the continuing requirements of the new framework to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly, and place a significant burden on our personnel, systems and resources. if our internal controls or disclosure controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as changes to standards related to revenue recognition which are effective for us beginning on january 1, 2017, the increased use of fair value measure, and financial instruments could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. if we do not ensure that our systems and processes are aligned with the new standards, we could encounter difficulties generating quarterly and annual financial statements in a timely manner, which would have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to meet our reporting obligations. if securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. if we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. 27 table of contents the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. the market price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this periodic report, and other factors such as rumors or fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us or announcements regarding our share repurchase program and the timing and amount of shares we purchase under the program. for example, in fiscal 2014, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $19.02 to $31.31. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. our corporate governance documents include provisions: providing for a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; providing that certain litigation matters may only be brought against us in state or federal courts in the state of delaware; controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. 28 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate fluctuation risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, money market funds, government and corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit. the risk associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio. a 10% decrease in interest rates in fiscal 2014 , fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 would have resulted in a decrease in our interest income in each of these periods of $0.5 million. foreign currency exchange risk our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency translation risk. however, a substantial portion of our operating expenses incurred outside the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the canadian dollar ( cad ). to help protect against significant fluctuations in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we engage in foreign currency risk management activities to hedge balance sheet items denominated in cad. we do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. all of the derivative instruments are with high quality financial institutions. these contracts typically have maturities between one and three months. we record changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts related to balance sheet accounts as other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. we recognized an expense of $3.2 million in other expense, net, in fiscal 2014 due to foreign currency transaction losses. 53 table of contents our hedging activities are intended to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. as our hedging activities are relatively short-term in nature and are focused on cad, long-term material changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, such as the euro ( eur ), british pound ( gbp ), and chinese renminbi ( cny ) could adversely impact our operating expenses in the future. we assessed the risk of loss in fair values from the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates. for foreign currency exchange rate risk, a 10% increase or decrease of foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a $2.2 million change in the value of our foreign currency cash accounts as of december 31, 2014. inflation risk our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are not affected significantly by inflation because they are short-term. we believe the impact of inflation on replacement costs of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. the rate of inflation, however, affects our cost of revenue and expenses, such as those for employee compensation, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of products and services offered by us. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. investors should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially, and investors may lose some or all of their investment. risks related to our business our operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control or may be difficult to predict, including: the level of demand for our products and services, which may render forecasts inaccurate; the timing of channel partner and end-customer orders and our reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of each quarter; the timing of shipments, which may depend on many factors such as inventory levels, logistics, shipping delays, our ability to ship new products on schedule and to accurately forecast inventory requirements, and potential delays in the manufacturing process; inventory management; the mix of products sold, the mix of revenue between products and services and the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; the purchasing practices and budgeting cycles of our channel partners and end-customers; seasonal buying patterns of our end-customers; timing and level of our investments in sales and marketing; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, which may be affected by both the mix of sales by our sell-in versus our sell-through channel partners, and the accuracy and timing of point-of-sale reporting by our sell-through channel partners, which impacts our ability to recognize revenue; the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; changes in the requirements, market needs or buying practices and patterns of distributors, resellers or end-customers; changes in the growth rate of the network security markets; the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors, or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors, partners, or end-customers; deferral of orders from distributors, resellers or end-customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; increases or decreases in our billings, revenues and expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our expenses are incurred and paid in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and fluctuations may impact the actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay for our products and services; 8 table of contents decisions by potential end-customers to purchase network security solutions from newer technology providers, from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; price competition and increased competitiveness in our market; changes in customer renewal rates for our services; changes in the payment terms of services contracts or the length of services contracts sold; changes in our estimated annual effective tax rates; changes in circumstances and challenges in business conditions, including decreased demand, which may negatively impact our channel partners' ability to sell the current inventory they hold and negatively impact their future purchases of products from us; increased expenses, unforeseen liabilities or write-downs and any impact on results of operations from any acquisition consummated; our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions; disruptions in our channel or termination of our relationship with important channel partners; insolvency, credit or other difficulties confronting our key suppliers and channel partners, which could affect their ability to purchase or pay for products and services and which could disrupt our supply or distribution chain; general economic conditions, both in our domestic and foreign markets; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies; and legislative or regulatory changes, such as with respect to privacy, information and cyber security, exports, the environment, and accounting standards. any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial and other operating results. this variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. if we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. in addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue trends. accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. in addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. weak global economic conditions, weak economic conditions in certain geographies, or a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macro-economic conditions, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our channel partners, reduced unit sales and slower or declining growth. our billings and revenue growth may slow or may not continue. billings and revenue growth may slow, or we may experience a decrease in billings and revenue, for a number of reasons, including a slowdown in demand for our products or services, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, softness in demand in certain geographies or industry verticals, such as the service provider industry, if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities, and due to other risks identified in the risk factors. our 9 table of contents expenses as a percentage of total revenue may be higher than expected if our revenue is lower than expected and if our investments in sales and marketing and other functional areas do not result in expected billings and revenue growth, and we may not be able to sustain profitability in future periods if we fail to increase billings, revenue or deferred revenue, do not appropriately manage our cost structure, or encounter unanticipated liabilities. any failure by us to maintain profitability and continue our billings and revenue growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. we rely significantly on revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services which may decline, and because we recognize revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales of fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue has historically accounted for a significant percentage of our total revenue. sales of new, or renewals of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in purchases of fortigate appliances, end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers' spending levels. if our sales of new, or renewals of existing fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business could suffer. in addition, in the event significant customers require payment terms for fortiguard security subscription or forticare technical support services in arrears or for shorter periods of time than annually, such as monthly or quarterly, this may negatively impact our billings and revenue. furthermore, we recognize fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically from one to three years, and in some instances has been as long as five years. as a result, much of the fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in new or renewed fortiguard security subscription or forticare technical support services contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales of new, or renewals of existing, fortiguard security subscription or forticare technical support services is not reflected in full in our statements of operations until future periods. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal support services contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. we generate a majority of revenue from sales to distributors, resellers and end-customers outside of the united states, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. we market and sell our products throughout the world and have established sales offices in many parts of the world. therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. we are also subject to a number of risks typically associated with international sales and operations, including: economic or political instability in foreign markets; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; changes in regulatory requirements; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; costs of compliance with foreign policies, laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such policies, laws and regulations; protectionist policies and penalties, and local laws, requirements, policies and perceptions that may adversely impact u.s. headquartered business' sales in certain countries outside of the united states; costs of complying with u.s. or other foreign laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act 2010, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers and economic sanctions; 10 table of contents other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales or sales-related arrangements that could disrupt the sales team through terminations of employment or otherwise, and may adversely impact financial results as compared to those already reported or forecasted and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; our ability to effectively implement and maintain adequate internal controls to properly manage our international sales and operations; the potential for political unrest, terrorism, hostilities, war or natural disasters; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; and changes in tax, employment and other laws product and service sales and employee and contractor matters may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. further, we may be unable to keep up-to-date with changes in government requirements as they change over time. failure to comply with these regulations could result in adverse effects to our business. in many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in litigation, regulatory action, costs of investigation, delays in revenue recognition, delays in financial reporting, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties, or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we are not successful in continuing to execute our strategy to increase our sales to large and medium-sized end-customers, our results of operations may suffer. an important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of our products to large and medium-sized enterprises, service providers and government organizations. while we have increased sales in recent periods to large enterprises and service providers, we have experienced less traction selling to certain government organizations and there can be no assurance that we will be successful selling to these customers. sales to these organizations involve risks that may not be present (or that are present to a lesser extent) with sales to smaller entities. these risks include: increased competition from competitors that traditionally target large and medium-sized enterprises, service providers and government organizations and that may already have purchase commitments from those end-customers; increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end-customers in negotiating contractual arrangements; unanticipated changes in the capital resources or purchasing behavior of large end-customers, including changes in the volume and frequency of their purchases; more stringent support requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, more complex requirements and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; and longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end-customer that elects not to purchase our products and services. large and medium-sized enterprises, service providers and government organizations often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases over 12 months. although we have a channel sales model, 11 table of contents our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with end-customers, along with our distributors and resellers, in connection with sales to large and medium-sized end-customers. we may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without being successful in producing any sales. in addition, product purchases by large and medium-sized enterprises, service providers and government organizations are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. furthermore, service providers represent our largest industry vertical and consolidation or changes in buying behavior by larger customers within this industry could negatively impact our business. large and medium-sized enterprises, service providers and government organizations typically have longer implementation cycles, require greater product functionality and scalability, expect a broader range of services, including design services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition, and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. all these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. in addition, if sales expected from a large and medium-sized end-customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. insufficient inventory may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. managing our inventory is complex. our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders or not place orders commensurate with our expectations if their inventory is too high, return products or take advantage of price protection (if any is available to the particular partner) or delay orders in anticipation of new products. they also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-customer demand. furthermore, if the time required to manufacture or ship certain products increases for any reason, inventory shortfalls could result. management of our inventory is further complicated by the significant number of different products and models that we sell. in addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our results of operations. our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage inventory. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. alternatively, insufficient inventory levels may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-customers turn to competitors' products that are readily available. for example, we have in the past experienced inventory shortages due to more demand for certain products than we had forecasted. if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our channel partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute on our business plan, and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. the loss of services of members of senior management, particularly ken xie, our co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer and michael xie, our co-founder, president and chief technology officer, and any of our senior sales leaders or functional area leaders, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. the loss of the services, or distraction, of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering and sales, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we experience turnover in our management-level personnel. none of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. competition for highly-skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially for qualified employees in network security and especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel, such as the san francisco bay area and vancouver, canada. we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or 12 table of contents divulged proprietary or other confidential information. the average sales prices of our products may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and adversely impact our financial results and the trading price of our common stock. the average sales prices for our products may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts or promotional programs we offer, a change in our mix of products and anticipation of the introduction of new products. competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or may bundle them with other products. additionally, although we price our products and services worldwide in u.s. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions have in the past and may in the future negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions. furthermore, we anticipate that the average sales prices and gross profits for our products will decrease over product life cycles. we cannot ensure that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices and gross profits at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our billings and revenue to fall below expected levels. as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas, we have historically received a substantial portion of each quarter's sales orders and generated a substantial portion of each quarter's billings and revenue during the last two weeks of the quarter. for example, on average over the past eight quarters, our shipments during the last two weeks of each quarter accounted for 31% of aggregate billings for each quarter. if expected orders at the end of any quarter are delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, our logistics partners' inability to ship products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the quarter, our failure to manage inventory to meet demand, our inability to release new products on schedule, any failure of our systems related to order review and processing, any delays in shipments due to trade compliance requirements, labor disputes or logistics changes at shipping ports or otherwise, our billings and revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. unless we continue to develop better market awareness of our company and our products, and to improve lead generation and sales enablement, our revenue may not continue to grow. increased market awareness of our capabilities and products and increased lead generation are essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large enterprise, service provider and government organization market. we have historically had relatively low spending on marketing activities. while we have increased our investments in sales and marketing, it is not clear that these investments will continue to result in increased revenue. if our investments in additional sales personnel or if our marketing programs are not successful in continuing to create market awareness of our company and products and increased lead generation, we will not be able to achieve sustained growth, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. we rely on third-party channel partners to generate substantially all of our revenue. if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited, and if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results will be harmed. substantially all of our revenue is generated through sales by our channel partners, which include distributors and resellers. we depend upon our channel partners to generate sales opportunities and manage the sales process. to the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with, and retain, a sufficient number of high quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, and keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and operating results will be harmed. the termination of our relationship with any significant channel partner may adversely impact our sales and operating results. we provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them in selling our products and incentivize them to sell our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. in addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services and may purchase more inventory than they can sell. our channel partners generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions. in addition, if our channel partners' financial condition or operations weaken it could negatively impact their ability to sell our product and services. they may also 13 table of contents market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products. they may also have incentives to promote our competitors' products to the detriment of our own, or they may cease selling our products altogether. we cannot ensure that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement partners or that existing channel partners will continue to perform. the loss of one or more of our significant channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter through them could harm our operating results. during 2015, 2014 and 2013, exclusive networks group, which distributed our solutions to a large group of resellers and end-customers, accounted for 18% , 15% and 12% of our total revenue, respectively. in addition, any new sales channel partner will require extensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end-customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. we depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if we fail to optimize our channel partner model or fail to manage existing sales channels, our business will be seriously harmed. actual, possible or perceived defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, the failure of our products or services to prevent a virus or security breach, or misuse of our products could harm our reputation and divert resources. because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our customers. defects or vulnerabilities may impede or block network traffic, cause our products or services to be vulnerable to electronic break-ins or cause them to fail to help secure networks. different customers deploy and use our products in different ways, and certain deployments and usages may subject our products to adverse conditions that may negatively impact the effectiveness and useful lifetime of our products. we cannot ensure that our products will prevent all security threats. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. in addition, defects or errors in our fortiguard security subscription updates or our fortigate appliances could result in a failure of our fortiguard security subscription services to effectively update end-customers' fortigate appliances and thereby leave customers vulnerable to attacks. furthermore, our solutions may also fail to detect or prevent viruses, worms or similar threats due to a number of reasons such as the evolving nature of such threats and the continual emergence of new threats that we may fail to add to our fortiguard databases in time to protect our end-customers' networks. our fortiguard or forticare data centers and networks may also experience technical failures and downtime, and may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or fail to meet the increased requirements of our customer base. any such technical failure, downtime, or failures in general may temporarily or permanently expose our end-customers' networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. an actual, possible or perceived security breach or infection of the network of one of our end-customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services to prevent the security breach, could adversely affect the market's perception of our security products and services and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. we may not be able to correct any security flaws or vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. our products may also be misused by end-customers or third parties who obtain access to our products. for example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the internet. such use of our products for censorship could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, even if we take reasonable measures to prevent any improper shipment of our products or if our products are provided by an unauthorized third-party. any actual, possible, or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, or misuse of our products, could result in: expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work-around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; loss of existing or potential end-customers or channel partners; delayed or lost revenue; delay or failure to attain market acceptance; negative publicity, which will harm our reputation; and litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. 14 table of contents our business and operations have experienced growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results will be negatively affected. our business has grown over the last several years. we rely heavily on information technology and accounting systems to help manage critical functions such as order processing, revenue recognition, financial forecasts, inventory and supply chain management and trade compliance reviews. certain of these systems were developed by us for our internal use and as such may have a higher risk of failure or not receive the same level of support as systems purchased from and supported by external technology companies. in addition, we have been slow to adopt and implement certain automated functions, which could have a negative impact on our business. for example, a large part of our order processing relies on the manual processing of emails internally and receipt of customer purchase orders through email and, to a lesser extent, through electronic data interchange from our customers. combined with the fact that we may receive a majority of our orders in the last few weeks of any given quarter, a significant interruption in our email service or other systems could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased billings and revenue for that quarter. to manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. we may not be able to successfully implement requisite improvements to these systems, controls and processes, such as system access and change management controls, in a timely or efficient manner. our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, whether as a result of the significant growth of our business or otherwise, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. moreover, the failure of our systems and processes could undermine our ability to provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results and could impact the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. our productivity and the quality of our products and services may also be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our results of operations. we may experience difficulties implementing and maintaining our new enterprise resource planning system. we purchased a new enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system and are currently implementing the new system. erp implementations are complex and time-consuming, and involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities. the erp system will be critical to our ability to provide important information to our management, obtain and deliver products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, accurately maintain books and records, provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results or otherwise operate our business. erp implementations also require transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the erp system; any such transformation involves risks inherent in the conversion to a new computer system, including loss of information and potential disruption to our normal operations. the implementation and maintenance of the new erp system has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant financial and human resources and the implementation may be subject to delays and cost overruns. in addition, we may not be able to successfully complete the implementation of the new erp system without experiencing difficulties. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation or the ongoing maintenance of the new erp system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, accurately maintain books and records, provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results, or otherwise operate our business. additionally, if we do not effectively implement the erp system as planned or the system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected or our ability to assess it adequately could be delayed. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. 15 table of contents significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition and sales return reserves, stock-based compensation expense, valuation of inventory, warranty liabilities, investments, accounting for business combination, goodwill and other long-lived assets, restructuring, accounting for income taxes, and litigation and settlement costs. we offer retroactive price protection to certain of our major distributors, and if we fail to balance their inventory with end-customer demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we provide certain of our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. if we reduce the list price of our products, certain distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the levels of our major distributors' inventories. if future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. because we depend on several third-party manufacturers to build our products, we are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers, and third-party manufacturing cost increases could result in lower gross margins. we outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to contract manufacturing partners and original design manufacturing partners including faraday, k-micro and renesas. our reliance on our third-party manufacturers in asia and elsewhere reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance and product costs, supply and timing. any manufacturing disruption by our third-party manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, increased manufacturing lead-times, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our business would be seriously harmed. these manufacturers fulfill our supply requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders. we have no long-term contracts or arrangements with certain of our third-party manufacturers that guarantee capacity, the continuation of particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for manufacturing services could be increased on short notice. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers would be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs, which could adversely affect our gross margins. our individual product lines are generally manufactured by only one manufacturing partner. any production or shipping interruptions for any reason, such as a natural disaster, epidemic, capacity shortages, quality problems, or strike or other labor disruption at one of our manufacturing partners or locations or at shipping ports or locations, would severely affect sales of our product lines manufactured by that manufacturing partner. furthermore, manufacturing cost increases for any reason could result in lower gross margins. our proprietary fortiasic, which is the key to the performance of our appliances, is fabricated by contract manufacturers in foundries operated by umc and tsmc on a purchase order basis, and umc and tsmc do not guarantee any capacity and could reject orders or could try to increase pricing. accordingly, the foundries are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and due to the long lead time that a new foundry would require, we could suffer temporary or long term inventory shortages of our fortiasic as well as increased costs. our suppliers may also prioritize orders by other companies that order higher volumes or more profitable products. if any of these manufacturers materially delays its supply of asics or specific product models to us, or requires us to find an alternate supplier and we are not able to do so on a timely and reasonable basis, or if these foundries materially increase their prices for fabrication of our asics, our business would be harmed. in addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries limits our control over environmental regulatory requirements such as the hazardous substance content of our products and therefore our ability to ensure compliance with the european union's ( eu ) restriction of hazardous substances directive ( rohs ) and other similar laws. it also exposes us to the risk that certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, that are contained in our products have originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. as a result of the passage of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, the sec adopted disclosure requirements for public companies whose products contain conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of such products. under these rules, we are required to obtain sourcing data from suppliers, perform supply chain due diligence, and file annually with the sec a 16 table of contents specialized disclosure report on form sd covering the prior calendar year. we have incurred and expect to incur additional costs to comply with the rules, including costs related to the determination of the origin, source and chain of custody of the conflict minerals used in our products and the adoption of conflict minerals-related governance policies, processes and controls. moreover, the implementation of these compliance measures could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products to the extent that there may be only a limited number of suppliers that are able to meet our sourcing requirements. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such materials in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to not purchase our products, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, we are susceptible to supply shortages, long lead times for components, and supply changes, each of which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers, result in inventory shortage, or loss of sales and customers, or increase component costs resulting in lower gross margins. we and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key parts and components used in the manufacture of our products from limited sources of supply. we are therefore subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times in the supply of these components and the risk that component suppliers discontinue or modify components used in our products. we have in the past experienced, and are currently experiencing, shortages and long lead times for certain components. certain of our limited source components for particular appliances and suppliers of those components include: specific types of central processing units from intel, network chips from broadcom corporation, marvell technology group ltd. and intel, and hard drives from western digital technologies, inc. the introduction by component suppliers of new versions of their products, particularly if not anticipated by us or our contract manufacturers, could require us to expend significant resources to incorporate these new components into our products. in addition, if these suppliers were to discontinue production of a necessary part or component, we would be required to expend significant resources and time in locating and integrating replacement parts or components from another vendor. qualifying additional suppliers for limited source parts or components can be time-consuming and expensive. our manufacturing partners have experienced long lead times for the purchase of components incorporated into our products. lead times for components may be adversely impacted by factors outside of our control, such as natural disasters and other factors. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts or components when required; financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers; infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; price increases; failure of a component to meet environmental or other regulatory requirements; failure to meet delivery obligations in a timely fashion; and failure in component quality. the occurrence of any of these events would be disruptive to us and could seriously harm our business. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our distributors, resellers and end-customers. this could harm our relationships with our channel partners and end-customers and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, increased component costs could result in lower gross margins. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating expenses are incurred outside the united states. these expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the euro and canadian dollar. while we are not currently engaged in material hedging activities, we 17 table of contents have been hedging currency exposures relating to certain balance sheet accounts and, if we stop hedging against any of these risks or if our attempts to hedge against these currency exposures are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore, while substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk, it does not serve as a hedge to our foreign currency-denominated operating expenses. in addition, a strengthening of the u.s. dollar could increase the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the united states, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or restrictions on sales, and could impair our ability to compete in international markets. because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, certain of our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the united states only with the required export license or through an export license exception, and may be prohibited altogether from export to certain countries. if we were to fail to comply with u.s. export laws, u.s. customs regulations and import regulations, u.s. economic sanctions and other countries' import and export laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. in addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, (for example, for stocking orders placed by our partners), we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties and we may not be able to provide support related to appliances shipped pursuant to such orders. obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. furthermore, u.s. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to u.s. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to u.s. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners, despite such precautions. any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations and penalties and reputational harm. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include the eu rohs and the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive ( weee directive ), as well as the implementing legislation of the eu member states. similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in china, south korea, norway and japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the united states, and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban the use of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. we have incurred costs to comply with these laws, including research and development costs, costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components and costs associated with writing off noncompliant inventory. we expect to continue to incur costs related to environmental laws and regulations in the future. with respect to the eu rohs, we and our competitors rely on an exemption for lead in network infrastructure equipment. it is possible this exemption will be revoked in the near future. if this exemption is revoked, if there are other changes to these laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. 18 table of contents the eu has also adopted the weee directive, which requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. although currently our eu international channel partners are responsible for the requirements of this directive as the importer of record in most of the european countries in which we sell our products, changes in interpretation of the regulations may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements in the future to meet in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. our failure to comply with these and future environmental rules and regulations could result in reduced sales of our products, increased costs, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions. a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. sales to u.s. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to government organizations. sales to government organizations are subject to a number of risks. selling to government organizations can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense, with long sales cycles and without any assurance of winning a sale. government demand, sales and payment for our products and services may be negatively impacted by numerous factors and requirements unique to selling to government agencies, such as: public sector budgetary cycles, funding authorizations and requirements unique to government agencies, with funding or purchasing reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products, geopolitical matters, and rules and regulations applicable to certain government sales. the rules and regulations applicable to sales to government organizations may also negatively impact sales to other organizations. to date, we have had limited traction in sales to u.s. federal government agencies, and any future sales to government organizations is uncertain. government organizations may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. for example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such government organization, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such distributor. governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors' administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way. finally, purchases by the u.s. government may require certain products to be manufactured in the united states and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the u.s. government. false detection of vulnerabilities, viruses or security breaches or false identification of spam or spyware could adversely affect our business. our antivirus and our intrusion prevention services may falsely detect viruses or other threats that do not actually exist. this risk is heightened by the inclusion of a heuristics feature in our products, which attempts to identify viruses and other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies that may indicate that a particular item is a threat. when our end-customers enable the heuristics feature in our products, the risk of falsely identifying viruses and other threats significantly increases. these false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. also, our anti-spam and anti-malware services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent anti-spam or spyware products. parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. in addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may reduce the adoption of our products. if our system restricts important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect end-customers' systems and cause material system failures. in addition, our threat researchers 19 table of contents periodically identify vulnerabilities in various third-party products, and, if these identifications are perceived to be incorrect or are in fact incorrect, this could harm our business. any such false identification or perceived false identification of important files, applications or vulnerabilities could result in negative publicity, loss of end-customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem and costly litigation. if our internal network system or our website is compromised, public perception of our products and services will be harmed, we may become subject to liability, and our business, operating results and stock price may be adversely impacted. we will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective network security protection. despite our efforts and processes to prevent breaches of our internal network system and website, we are still vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service and other cyber-attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized access to our internal network system or our website. our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees to disclose information in order to gain access to our network. we cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to protect our network and website will provide absolute security. moreover, because we provide network security products, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers. although we have not yet experienced significant damages from unauthorized access by a third party of our internal network or website, an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our internal systems or website could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services and investor confidence in our company. any breach of our network system or website could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services to our end-customers, lead to interruptions or system slowdowns, cause loss of critical data, or lead to the unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential, proprietary or sensitive information. we could also be subject to liability and litigation and reputational harm and our channel partners and end-customers may be harmed, lose confidence in us and decrease or cease using our products and services. any breach of our internal network system or our website could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. our ability to sell our products is dependent on the quality of our technical support services, and our failure to offer high quality technical support services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. once our products are deployed within our end-customers' networks, our end-customers depend on our technical support services, as well as the support of our channel partners, to resolve any issues relating to our products. if we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. many large end-customers, service provider and government organization end-customers require higher levels of support than smaller end-customers because of their more complex deployments. if we fail to meet the requirements of our larger end-customers, it may be more difficult to execute on our strategy to increase our penetration with large enterprises, service providers and government organizations. as a result, our failure to maintain high quality support services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, where a number of our subsidiaries are organized. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or withholding taxes; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; transfer pricing adjustments; an increase in non-deductible expenses for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; 20 table of contents tax costs related to intercompany realignments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our provision for income taxes for the period in which the settlement takes place; a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings; changes in accounting principles; court decisions, tax rulings and interpretations of tax laws, and regulations by international, federal or local governmental authorities; or changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible changes in the united states to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income or the foreign tax credit rules, or changes to the u.s. income tax rate, which would necessitate a revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the financial accounting standards board standard. in addition, the standard applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which, if settled unfavorably, could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain foreign countries is subject to reduced tax rates and, in some cases, is wholly exempt from tax. our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we currently do not have a valuation allowance, we may in the future be required to establish one. we will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. in addition, we hold a significant portion of our cash and investments outside of the united states. potential legislation could result in our transferring this cash and investments back to the united states, and potentially incurring an additional tax obligation. forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. if the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits or effective tax rates in a given jurisdiction differs from our estimate, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. the taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. 21 table of contents in addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. if tax authorities challenge the relative mix of u.s. and international income, our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected. while we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. in order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies and intellectual property, such as patents. for example, we recently closed our acquisition of meru. for any past acquisition or possible future acquisition, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product, technology or intellectual property into our existing business and operations. we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, intellectual property or products with our existing product lines, integrating reporting systems and procedures, and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. for example, we may experience difficulties integrating meru's erp system or sales and support processes and systems with our current erp system or our sales and support processes and systems. our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues, and we may not accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition. in addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete, including our acquisition of meru, may be dilutive to revenue growth and earnings and may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in impairment charges that could be substantial. we may have to pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity securities to pay for any acquisition, each of which could affect our financial condition or the value of our capital stock and could result in dilution to our stockholders. acquisitions during a quarter may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations for that period or future periods compared to the results that we have previously forecasted or achieved. further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating acquired businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property could significantly divert management time and resources. our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. our products are very complex and, despite testing prior to their release, have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. product errors have affected the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our end-customers' willingness to buy products from us, and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant end-customers, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. as a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products, and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. the occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we generally have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the united states or other countries, and in some circumstances we may be required to indemnify a customer in full, without a limitation on liability, for certain liabilities, including potential liabilities that are not contractually limited. the sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. we maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not cover such claim at all or may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us, and in some instances may subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. in addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management's time and other resources. 22 table of contents our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as civil unrest, labor disruption, and terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, power outage, flood, or other catastrophic event could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity, and our research and development and data office center in vancouver, canada is subject to the risk of flooding. in addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors, suppliers or logistics providers' ability to perform services such as obtaining product components and manufacturing products on a timely basis and assisting with shipments on a timely basis. in the event our or our service providers' information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in our missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. in addition, regional instability, civil unrest, labor disruptions, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers, or of the economy as a whole. given our typical concentration of sales at the end of each quarter, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. to the extent that any of the above results in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or in the delay of the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. risks related to our industry the network security market is rapidly evolving and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing end-customer needs, our competitive position and prospects will be harmed. the network security market is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. moreover, many of our end-customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly complex enterprise networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. in addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, while minimizing the impact on network performance. additionally, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new hardware architectures and asics that involve complex, expensive and time consuming research and development processes. although the market expects rapid introduction of new products or product enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain and there can be long time periods between releases and availability of new products. we have in the past and may in the future experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and services and fail to meet previously announced timetables for such availability. if we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our end-customers by developing and releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and services or enhancements that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. our url database for our web filtering service may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth of urls and may not categorize websites in accordance with our end-customers ' expectations. the success of our web filtering service depends on the breadth and accuracy of our url database. although our url database currently catalogs millions of unique urls, it contains only a portion of the urls for all of the websites that are available on the internet. in addition, the total number of urls and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth to continue in the future. accordingly, we must identify and categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate. our database and technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of websites, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the internet. further, the ongoing evolution of the internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our web filtering function. any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the internet could impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our web filtering service may not be successful in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our end-customers' expectations. we rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize websites and software applications in our proprietary databases. our end-customers may not agree with our 23 table of contents determinations that particular urls should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. in addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place material that is objectionable or that presents a security risk in categories that are generally unrestricted by our customers' internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. conversely, we may miscategorize websites such that access is denied to websites containing information that is important or valuable to our customers. any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. any failure to effectively categorize and filter websites according to our end-customers' and channel partners' expectations could impair the growth of our business. if our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. we spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new products and enhanced versions of our existing products to incorporate additional features, improved functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers' rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. when we develop a new product or an enhanced version of an existing product, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing our new products or enhancements to the market; failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; failure of our sales force and partners to focus on selling new products; inability to interoperate effectively with the networks or applications of our prospective end-customers; inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; actual or perceived defects, vulnerabilities, errors or failures; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay it purchases; easing of regulatory requirements around security; and reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. demand for our products may be limited by market perception that individual products from one vendor that provide multiple layers of security protection in one product are inferior to point solution network security solutions from multiple vendors. sales of most of our products depend on increased demand for incorporating broad security functionality in one appliance. if the market for these products fails to grow as we anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. target customers may view all-in-one network security solutions as inferior to security solutions from multiple vendors because of, among other things, their perception that such products of ours provide security functions from only a single vendor and do not allow users to choose best-of-breed defenses from among the wide range of dedicated security applications available. target customers might also perceive that, by combining multiple security functions into a single platform, our solutions create a 24 table of contents single point of failure in their networks, which means that an error, vulnerability or failure of our product may place the entire network at risk. in addition, the market perception that all-in-one solutions may be suitable only for small- and medium-sized businesses because such solution lacks the performance capabilities and functionality of other solutions may harm our sales to large enterprise, service provider and government organization end-customers. if the foregoing concerns and perceptions become prevalent, even if there is no factual basis for these concerns and perceptions, or if other issues arise with our market in general, demand for multi-security functionality products could be severely limited, which would limit our growth and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, a successful and publicized targeted attack against us, exposing a single point of failure, could significantly increase these concerns and perceptions and may harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in our market and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. the market for network security products is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. our competitors include companies such as blue coat, check point, cisco/sourcefire, dell/sonicwall, f5 networks, fireeye, intel/mcafee, juniper, palo alto networks and sophos. many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as: greater name recognition and longer operating histories; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers; access to larger customer bases; greater customer support resources; greater resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings, and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages customers from purchasing our products. these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus, and are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets. therefore, these competitors will not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of network security threat are often able to deliver these specialized network security products to the market more quickly than we can. some of our smaller competitors are using third-party chips designed to accelerate performance. conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. our competitors and potential competitors may also be able to develop products or services that are equal or superior to ours, achieve greater market acceptance of their products and services, and increase sales by utilizing different distribution channels than we do. our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. in addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources (such as cisco's acquisition of sourcefire, juniper's acquisition of netscreen technologies inc., intel's acquisition of mcafee, check point's acquisition of nokia corporations' security appliance business and dell's acquisition of sonicwall), and new competitors may arise pursuant to acquisitions of network security companies or divisions. as a result of such acquisitions, competition in our market may continue to increase and our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily, or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. due to budget constraints or economic downturns, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing network security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with 25 table of contents our solutions. these competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. if functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our appliances to their network, which would have an adverse effect on our business. large, well-established providers of networking equipment such as cisco, f5 networks and juniper offer, and may continue to introduce, network security features that compete with our products, either in standalone security products or as additional features in their network infrastructure products. the inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our security solutions in networking products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. furthermore, even if the functionality offered by network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor such as us. many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of networking products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from other vendors such as us. in addition, an organization's existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only network security products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. if organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our products without compensating us. we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or products. any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. patent applications in the united states are typically not published until at least 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. in addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the united states may bring into question the validity of certain software patents and may make it more difficult and costly to prosecute patent applications. as a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or effectively enforce our issued patents. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. policing unauthorized use of our technology or products is difficult. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the united states. from time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and products protected other than by patent rights), we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. our products contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including the gnu public license, the gnu lesser public license (lgpl), the bsd license, the apache license the mit x license 26 table of contents and the mozilla public license. from time to time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants' intellectual property rights. we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by united states courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make our proprietary code generally available in source code form, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which requirements could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other litigation matters could harm our business. patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network security industry. third parties are currently asserting, have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us. they may also assert such claims against our end-customers or channel partners whom we typically indemnify against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. any claim of infringement by a third-party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. in addition, litigation may involve patent holding companies, non-practicing entities or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable, and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense, and may ultimately not be successful. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we are subject to lawsuits claiming patent infringement. we are also subject to other litigation in addition to patent infringement claims, such as employment-related litigation and disputes, as well as general commercial litigation, and could become subject to other forms of litigation and disputes, including stockholder litigation. if we are unsuccessful in defending any such claims, our operating results and financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. for example, we may be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling certain of our products. litigation, with or without merit, could negatively impact our business, reputation and sales in a material fashion. we have several on-going patent lawsuits and several non-practicing entity patent holding companies have sent us letters proposing that we license certain of their patents. given this and the proliferation of lawsuits in our industry and other similar industries by both non-practicing entities and operating entities, we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. the cost to defend such lawsuits and any adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 27 table of contents we rely on the availability of third-party licenses. many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. risks related to ownership of our common stock as a public company, we are subject to compliance initiatives that will require substantial time from our management and result in significantly increased costs that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 and other rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq stock market impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. these requirements, as well as proposed corporate governance laws and regulations under consideration, may further increase our compliance costs. if compliance with these various legal and regulatory requirements diverts our management's attention from other business concerns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually, and of our disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. although our most recent assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of december 31, 2015, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in 2016 or future periods. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices, and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, such as changes to standards related to revenue recognition (which are effective for us beginning on january 1, 2018), the increased use of fair value measure, and financial instruments could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. if we do not ensure that our systems and processes are aligned with the new standards, we could encounter difficulties generating quarterly and annual financial statements in a timely manner, which would have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to meet our reporting obligations. if securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. if we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this periodic report, news about fortinet and our financial results, news about our competitors and their results, and other factors such as rumors or fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us, or announcements regarding any stock repurchase programs and the timing and amount of shares we purchase under such programs. for example, over the past twelve months through the filing of this report, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $23.83 to $48.83. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, 28 table of contents political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. our corporate governance documents include provisions: providing for a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; providing that certain litigation matters may only be brought against us in state or federal courts in the state of delaware; controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate fluctuation risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and investments in a variety of securities, including corporate debt securities, money market funds, commercial paper, municipal bonds, u.s. government and agency securities, and certificates of deposit and term deposits. the risk associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio. a 10% decrease in interest rates in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 would have resulted in an insignificant decrease in our interest income in each of these periods. foreign currency exchange risk our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency translation risk. however, a substantial portion of our operating expenses incurred outside the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the canadian dollar ( cad ) and euro ( eur ). to help protect against significant fluctuations in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we engage in foreign currency risk management activities to hedge balance sheet items denominated in cad. we do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. all of the derivative instruments are with high quality financial institutions. these contracts typically have maturities between one and three months. we record changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts related to balance 55 table of contents sheet accounts as other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. we recognized an expense of $3.2 million in other expense net, in 2015 due to foreign currency transaction losses. our hedging activities are intended to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. as our hedging activities are relatively short-term in nature and are focused on the cad, long-term material changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, such as the eur, british pound ( gbp ), and chinese renminbi ( cny ) could adversely impact our operating expenses in the future. we assessed the risk of loss in fair values from the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates. for foreign currency exchange rate risk, a 10% increase or decrease of foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a $2.5 million change in the value of our foreign currency cash balances as of december 31, 2015. inflation risk our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are not affected significantly by inflation because they are short-term. we believe the impact of inflation on replacement costs of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. the rate of inflation, however, affects our cost of revenue and expenses, such as those for employee compensation, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of products and services offered by us. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. investors should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially, and investors may lose some or all of their investment. risks related to our business our operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control or may be difficult to predict, including: the level of demand for our products and services, which may render forecasts inaccurate; the timing of channel partner and end-customer orders and our reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of each quarter; the timing of shipments, which may depend on many factors such as inventory levels, logistics, shipping delays, our ability to ship new products on schedule and to accurately forecast inventory requirements, and potential delays in the manufacturing process; inventory management; the mix of products sold, the mix of revenue between products and services and the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; the purchasing practices and budgeting cycles of our channel partners and end-customers; the effectiveness of our sales organization, generally or in a particular geographic region, and the time it takes for our sales personnel to reach productivity; seasonal buying patterns of our end-customers; the timing and level of our investments in sales and marketing, and the impact of such investments on our operating expenses and operating margin, and on the productivity and effectiveness of execution of our sales and marketing teams; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, which may be affected by both the mix of sales by our sell-in versus our sell-through channel partners, and the accuracy and timing of point-of-sale reporting by our sell-through channel partners, which impacts our ability to recognize revenue; the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; changes in the requirements, market needs or buying practices and patterns of our distributors, resellers or end-customers; changes in the growth rate of the network security markets; the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors, or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors, partners, or end-customers; the deferral of orders from distributors, resellers or end-customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; 9 table of contents increases or decreases in our billings, revenue and expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or a strengthening of the u.s. dollar, as a significant portion of our expenses is incurred and paid in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and such fluctuations may impact the actual prices that our partners and customers are willing to pay for our products and services; compliance with existing laws and regulations that are applicable to our ability to conduct business with the public sector; the impact of cloud-based platforms on the timing of our revenue recognition, billings and free cash flow; decisions by potential end-customers to purchase network security solutions from newer technology providers, from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; price competition and increased competitiveness in our market; changes in customer renewal rates for our services; changes in the payment terms of services contracts or the length of services contracts sold; changes in our estimated annual effective tax rates; changes in circumstances and challenges in business conditions, including decreased demand, which may negatively impact our channel partners' ability to sell the current inventory they hold and negatively impact their future purchases of products from us; increased demand for cloud-based services and the uncertainty associated with transitioning to providing such services; increased expenses, unforeseen liabilities or write-downs and any impact on results of operations from any acquisition consummated; our channel partners having insufficient financial resources to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions; disruptions in our channel or termination of our relationship with important channel partners; insolvency, credit or other difficulties confronting our key suppliers and channel partners, which could affect their ability to purchase or pay for products and services and which could disrupt our supply or distribution chain; policy changes enacted and uncertainty with respect to immigration laws, trade policy, foreign imports and tax laws related to international commerce; political, economic and social instability; general economic conditions, both in domestic and foreign markets; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies, such as changes in the revenue recognition standards or accounting for leases, as well as the significant costs that may be incurred to adopt and comply with these new pronouncements; possible impairments or acceleration of depreciation of our existing real estate due to our future expansion plans; and legislative or regulatory changes, such as with respect to privacy, information and cybersecurity, exports, the environment and applicable accounting standards. 10 table of contents any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial and other operating results. this variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. if we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. in addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature over the near term. accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. in addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. weak global economic conditions and spending environments, weak economic conditions in certain geographies, or a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macro-economic conditions, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our channel partners, reduced unit sales and slower or declining growth. our billings, revenue and free cash flow growth may slow or may not continue. billings, revenue and free cash flow growth may slow, or we may experience a decrease in billings, revenue and free cash flow for a number of reasons, including a slowdown in demand for our products or services, a shift in demand from products to services, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market or softness in demand in certain geographies or industry verticals, such as the service provider industry, and our failure for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities and due to other risks identified in the risk factors described in this periodic report. our expenses as a percentage of total revenue may be higher than expected if our revenue is lower than expected and, if our investments in sales and marketing and other functional areas do not result in expected billings and revenue growth, we may experience margin declines and may not be able to sustain profitability in future periods if we fail to increase billings, revenue or deferred revenue, do not appropriately manage our cost structure and free cash flow or encounter unanticipated liabilities. any failure by us to maintain profitability, maintain our margins and continue our billings, revenue and free cash flow growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. we rely significantly on revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services which may decline, and because we recognize revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales of fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue has historically accounted for a significant percentage of our total revenue. revenue from the sale of new, or from the renewal of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in purchases of fortigate appliances, changes in the sales mix between products and services, end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors, reductions in our customers' spending levels and the timing of revenue recognition with respect to these arrangements. if our sales of new, or renewals of existing fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business could suffer. in addition, in the event significant customers require payment terms for fortiguard security subscription or forticare technical support services in arrears or for shorter periods of time than annually, such as monthly or quarterly, this may negatively impact our billings and revenue. furthermore, we recognize fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically from one to three years, and in some instances has been as long as five years. as a result, much of the fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts entered into during previous quarters or years. consequently, a decline in new or renewed fortiguard security subscription or forticare technical support services contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales of new, or renewals of existing, fortiguard security subscription or forticare technical support services is not reflected in full in our statements of operations until future periods. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal support services contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. 11 table of contents we generate a majority of revenue from sales to distributors, resellers and end-customers outside of the u.s., and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. we market and sell our products throughout the world and have established sales offices in many parts of the world. our international sales have represented a majority of our total revenue in recent periods. therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. we are also subject to a number of risks typically associated with international sales and operations, including: economic or political instability in foreign markets; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; changes in regulatory requirements; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; costs of compliance with foreign policies, laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such policies, laws and regulations; protectionist policies and penalties, and local laws, requirements, policies and perceptions that may adversely impact u.s. headquartered business' sales in certain countries outside of the u.s.; costs of complying with u.s. or other foreign laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom ( uk ) bribery act 2010, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers and economic sanctions; other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales or sales-related arrangements that could disrupt the sales team through terminations of employment or otherwise, and may adversely impact financial results as compared to those already reported or forecasted and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; our ability to effectively implement and maintain adequate internal controls to properly manage our international sales and operations; the potential for political unrest, changes and uncertainty, and for terrorism, hostilities, war or natural disasters; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; and changes in tax, employment and other laws. product and service sales and employee and contractor matters may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. further, we may be unable to keep up-to-date with changes in government requirements as they change over time. failure to comply with these regulations could result in adverse effects to our business. in many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in litigation, regulatory action, costs of investigation, delays in revenue recognition, delays in financial reporting, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties, or the prohibition of the importation or 12 table of contents exportation of our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we are not successful in continuing to execute our strategy to increase our sales to large and medium-sized end-customers, our results of operations may suffer. an important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of our products to large enterprises and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations. while we have increased sales in recent periods to large and medium-sized enterprises and service providers, our sales volume varies by quarter. we also have experienced less traction selling to certain government organizations and there can be no assurance that we will be successful selling to these customers. sales to these organizations involve risks that may not be present, or that are present to a lesser extent, with sales to smaller entities. these risks include: increased competition from competitors that traditionally target large enterprises and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations and that may already have purchase commitments from those end-customers; increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end-customers in negotiating contractual arrangements; unanticipated changes in the capital resources or purchasing behavior of large end-customers, including changes in the volume and frequency of their purchases and changes in the mix of products and services and related payment terms; more stringent support requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, more complex requirements and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end-customer that elects not to purchase our products and services; and longer ramp-up periods for enterprise sales personnel as compared to other sales personnel. large enterprises and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases longer than 12 months. although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with end-customers, along with our distributors and resellers, in connection with sales to large and medium-sized end-customers. we may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without being successful in producing any sales. in addition, product purchases by large enterprises and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. furthermore, service providers represent our largest industry vertical and consolidation or changes in buying behavior by larger customers within this industry could negatively impact our business. large enterprises and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations typically have longer implementation cycles, require greater product functionality and scalability, expect a broader range of services, including design services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition, and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. in addition, large enterprises and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations may require that our products and services be sold differently from how we offer our products and services, which could negatively impact our operating results. our large enterprise and service provider customers may also become more deliberate in their purchases as they plan their next-generation network security architecture, leading them to take more time in making purchasing decisions or to purchase based only on their immediate needs. all these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. in addition, if sales expected from a large and medium-sized end-customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. insufficient inventory may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. managing our inventory is complex. our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders or not place orders commensurate with our expectations if their inventory is too high, return products or take advantage of price protection (if any is available to the particular partner) or delay orders in anticipation of new products, and accurately forecasting inventory requirements and demand can be challenging. our channel partners also may adjust their 13 table of contents orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-customer demand. furthermore, if the time required to manufacture or ship certain products increases for any reason, inventory shortfalls could result. management of our inventory is further complicated by the significant number of different products and models that we sell. in addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our results of operations. our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage inventory. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, or excess inventory levels. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. alternatively, insufficient inventory levels may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-customers turn to competitors' products that are readily available. for example, we have in the past experienced inventory shortages and excesses due to the variance in demand for certain products from forecasted amounts. if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our channel partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute on our business plan, and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. the loss of services of members of senior management, particularly ken xie, our co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer, and michael xie, our co-founder, president and chief technology officer, and any of our senior sales leaders or functional area leaders, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. the loss of the services, or distraction, of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering, sales and marketing, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we experience turnover in our management-level personnel. none of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. competition for highly-skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially for qualified employees in network security and especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel, such as the san francisco bay area and vancouver, canada. we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. changes in immigration laws, including changes to the rules regarding h1-b visas, may also harm our ability to attract personnel from other countries. if we do not increase the effectiveness of our sales organization in some regions, we may have difficulty adding new end-customers or increasing sales to our existing end-customers and our business may be adversely affected. although we have a channel sales model, members of our sales organization often engage in direct interaction with our prospective end-customers. therefore, we continue to be substantially dependent on our sales organization to obtain new end-customers and sell additional products and services to our existing end-customers. there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. our ability to grow our revenue depends, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth and on the effectiveness of those personnel. new hires require substantial training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. for example, we realigned our sales organization in early 2016 and it has taken more time than we expected to ramp up the productivity of our realigned sales organization, which negatively impacted our revenue growth in the third quarter of 2016 in some regions. furthermore, hiring sales personnel in new countries requires additional setup and upfront costs that we may not recover if the sales personnel fail to achieve full productivity. if our new sales employees do not become fully productive on the timelines that we have projected, our revenue will not increase at anticipated levels and our ability to achieve long term 14 table of contents projections may be negatively impacted. if we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new end-customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business, operating results and prospects will be adversely affected. the sales prices of our products and services may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and adversely impact our financial results and the trading price of our common stock. the sales prices for our products and services may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts or promotional programs we offer, a change in our mix of products and services and anticipation of the introduction of new products and services. competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products and services that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or services or may bundle them with other products or services. additionally, although we price our products and services worldwide in u.s. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions. furthermore, we anticipate that the sales prices and gross profits for our products or services will decrease over product life cycles. we cannot ensure that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product and service offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices and gross profits at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our billings and revenue to fall below expected levels. as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas, we have historically received a substantial portion of each quarter's sales orders and generated a substantial portion of each quarter's billings and revenue during the last two weeks of the quarter. for example, in 2016, the portion of billings during the last two weeks of the quarter was 37%, and, on average over the past eight quarters, our billings during the last two weeks accounted for 35% of aggregate billings for each quarter. if expected orders at the end of any quarter are delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, our logistics partners' inability to ship products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the quarter, our failure to accurately forecast our inventory requirements and to appropriately manage inventory to meet demand, our inability to release new products on schedule, any failure of our systems related to order review and processing, any delays in shipments due to trade compliance requirements, labor disputes or logistics changes at shipping ports or otherwise, our billings and revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. unless we continue to develop better market awareness of our company and our products, and to improve lead generation and sales enablement, our revenue may not continue to grow. increased market awareness of our capabilities and products and increased lead generation are essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large enterprise, service provider and government organization market. we have historically had relatively low spending on marketing activities. while we have increased our investments in sales and marketing, it is not clear that these investments will continue to result in increased revenue. if our investments in additional sales personnel or if our marketing programs are not successful in continuing to create market awareness of our company and products and increased lead generation, or if we experience turnover and disruption in our sales and marketing teams, we will not be able to achieve sustained growth, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. we rely on third-party channel partners to generate substantially all of our revenue. if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited, and if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results will be harmed. a significant portion of our sales is generated through a limited number of distributors, and substantially all of our revenue is generated through sales by our channel partners, including distributors and resellers. we depend upon our channel partners to generate a significant portion of our sales opportunities and manage the sales process. to the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with and retain a sufficient number of high-quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, and if we are unable to keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and operating results will be harmed. the termination of our relationship with any significant channel partner may adversely impact our sales and operating results. 15 table of contents we provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them in selling our products and incentivize them to sell our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. in addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services and may purchase more inventory than they can sell. our channel partners generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions. in addition, if our channel partners' financial condition or operations weaken it could negatively impact their ability to sell our product and services. our channel partners may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products. they may also have incentives to promote our competitors' products to the detriment of our own, or they may cease selling our products altogether. we cannot ensure that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement partners or that existing channel partners will continue to perform. the loss of one or more of our significant channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter through them could harm our operating results. during 2014, 2015 and 2016, exclusive, which distributed our solutions to a large group of resellers and end-customers, accounted for 15% , 18% and 20% of our total revenue, respectively. in addition, any new sales channel partner will require extensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end-customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. we depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if we fail to optimize our channel partner model or fail to manage existing sales channels, our business will be seriously harmed. actual, possible or perceived defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, the failure of our products or services to prevent a virus or security breach, or misuse of our products could harm our reputation and divert resources. because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our customers. defects or vulnerabilities may impede or block network traffic, cause our products or services to be vulnerable to electronic break-ins or cause them to fail to help secure networks. different customers deploy and use our products in different ways, and certain deployments and usages may subject our products to adverse conditions that may negatively impact the effectiveness and useful lifetime of our products. we cannot ensure that our products will prevent all security threats. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. in addition, defects or errors in our fortiguard security subscription updates or our fortigate appliances could result in a failure of our fortiguard security subscription services to effectively update end-customers' fortigate appliances and thereby leave customers vulnerable to attacks. furthermore, our solutions may also fail to detect or prevent viruses, worms or similar threats due to a number of reasons such as the evolving nature of such threats and the continual emergence of new threats that we may fail to add to our fortiguard databases in time to protect our end-customers' networks. our fortiguard or forticare data centers and networks may also experience technical failures and downtime, and may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or fail to meet the increased requirements of our customer base. any such technical failure, downtime or failures in general may temporarily or permanently expose our end-customers' networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. an actual, possible or perceived security breach or infection of the network of one of our end-customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services to prevent the security breach, could adversely affect the market's perception of our security products and services and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. we may not be able to correct any security flaws or vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. our products may also be misused by end-customers or third parties who obtain access to our products. for example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the internet. such use of our products for censorship could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, even if we take reasonable measures to prevent any improper shipment of our products or if our products are provided by an unauthorized third-party. any actual, possible or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, or misuse of our products, could result in: expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; loss of existing or potential end-customers or channel partners; delayed or lost revenue; 16 table of contents delay or failure to attain market acceptance; negative publicity and harm to our reputation; and litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. our business and operations have experienced growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, including through the expansion of our real estate holdings, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results will be negatively affected. our business has grown over the last several years. we rely heavily on information technology and accounting systems to help manage critical functions such as order processing, revenue recognition, financial forecasts, inventory and supply chain management and trade compliance reviews. certain of these systems were developed by us for our internal use and as such may have a higher risk of failure or not receive the same level of support as systems purchased from and supported by external technology companies. in addition, we have been slow to adopt and implement certain automated functions, which could have a negative impact on our business. for example, a large part of our order processing relies on manual data entry of customer purchase orders received through email and, to a lesser extent, through electronic data interchange from our customers. combined with the fact that we may receive a large amount of our orders in the last few weeks of any given quarter, a significant interruption in our email service or other systems could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased billings and revenue for that quarter. to manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. we may not be able to successfully implement requisite improvements to these systems, controls and processes, such as system capacity, access and change management controls, in a timely or efficient manner. our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, whether as a result of the significant growth of our business or otherwise, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. moreover, the failure of our systems and processes could undermine our ability to provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results and could impact the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. our productivity and the quality of our products and services may also be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our results of operations. further, it may be necessary to expand our real estate holdings to meet our projected growing need for office space. we recently approved plans to purchase office buildings in vancouver and ottawa, canada, and we are considering plans to significantly expand our headquarters in sunnyvale, california. these plans will require significant capital expenditure over the next several years and involve certain risks, including impairment charges and acceleration of depreciation, changes in future business strategy that may decrease the need for expansion (such as a decrease in headcount) and, with respect to our potential expansion plans in california, risks related to construction. future changes in growth or fluctuations in cash flow may also negatively impact our ability to pay for these projects. additionally, inaccuracies in our projected capital expenditures could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. we may experience difficulties maintaining and expanding our new enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. we recently implemented a new erp system. the erp system is critical to our ability to provide important information to our management, obtain and deliver products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, accurately maintain books and records, provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results and otherwise operate our business. erp system implementations also require transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the erp system; any such transformation involves risks inherent in the conversion to a new computer system, including potential disruption to our normal operations. the implementation and maintenance of the new erp system has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant financial and human resources. in addition, we may choose to upgrade or expand the functionality of our erp system, leading to additional costs. we may also discover deficiencies in our design or implementation or maintenance of the new erp system that could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, accurately maintain books and records, provide accurate, 17 table of contents timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results, or otherwise operate our business. additionally, if the system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected or our ability to assess it adequately could be delayed. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition and sales return reserves, stock-based compensation expense, valuation of inventory, investments, accounting for business combination, goodwill and other long-lived assets, restructuring, accounting for income taxes, and litigation and settlement costs. we offer retroactive price protection to certain of our major distributors, and if we fail to balance their inventory with end-customer demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we provide certain of our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. if we reduce the list price of our products, certain distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the levels of our major distributors' inventories. if future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. because we depend on several third-party manufacturers to build our products, we are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers, and third-party manufacturing cost increases could result in lower gross margins. we outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to contract manufacturing partners and original design manufacturing partners including faraday, k-micro and renesas. our reliance on our third-party manufacturers in asia and elsewhere reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance and product costs, supply and timing. any manufacturing disruption by our third-party manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, increased manufacturing lead-times, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our business would be seriously harmed. these manufacturers fulfill our supply requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders. we have no long-term contracts or arrangements with certain of our third-party manufacturers that guarantee capacity, the continuation of particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for manufacturing services could be increased on short notice. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers would be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs, which could adversely affect our gross margins. our individual product lines are generally manufactured by only one manufacturing partner. any production or shipping interruptions for any reason, such as a natural disaster, epidemic, capacity shortages, quality problems, or strike or other labor disruption at one of our manufacturing partners or locations or at shipping ports or locations, would severely affect sales of our product lines manufactured by that manufacturing partner. furthermore, manufacturing cost increases for any reason could result in lower gross margins. our proprietary spu, which is the key to the performance of our appliances, is fabricated by contract manufacturers in foundries operated by umc and tsmc on a purchase order basis, and umc and tsmc do not guarantee any capacity and 18 table of contents could reject orders or could try to increase pricing. accordingly, the foundries are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and due to the long lead time that a new foundry would require, we could suffer temporary or long term inventory shortages of our spu as well as increased costs. our suppliers may also prioritize orders by other companies that order higher volumes or more profitable products. if any of these manufacturers materially delays its supply of asics or specific product models to us, or requires us to find an alternate supplier and we are not able to do so on a timely and reasonable basis, or if these foundries materially increase their prices for fabrication of our asics, our business would be harmed. in addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries limits our control over environmental regulatory requirements such as the hazardous substance content of our products and therefore our ability to ensure compliance with the restriction of hazardous substances directive ( rohs ) adopted in the european union (the eu ) and other similar laws. it also exposes us to the risk that certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, that are contained in our products have originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. as a result of the passage of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( dodd-frank ), the sec adopted disclosure requirements for public companies whose products contain conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of such products. under these rules, we are required to obtain sourcing data from suppliers, perform supply chain due diligence, and file annually with the sec a specialized disclosure report on form sd covering the prior calendar year. we have incurred and expect to incur additional costs to comply with the rules, including costs related to the determination of the origin, source and chain of custody of the conflict minerals used in our products and the adoption of conflict minerals-related governance policies, processes and controls. moreover, the implementation of these compliance measures could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products to the extent that there may be only a limited number of suppliers that are able to meet our sourcing requirements. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such materials in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to not purchase our products, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, we are susceptible to supply shortages, long lead times for components, and supply changes, each of which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers, result in inventory shortage, or loss of sales and customers, or increase component costs resulting in lower gross margins. we and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key parts and components used in the manufacture of our products from limited sources of supply. we are therefore subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times in the supply of these components and the risk that component suppliers discontinue or modify components used in our products. we have in the past experienced, and are currently experiencing, shortages and long lead times for certain components. certain of our limited source components for particular appliances and suppliers of those components include: specific types of cpus from intel, network chips from broadcom, marvell and intel, and memory devices from intel, adata, ocz, samsung and western digital. the introduction by component suppliers of new versions of their products, particularly if not anticipated by us or our contract manufacturers, could require us to expend significant resources to incorporate these new components into our products. in addition, if these suppliers were to discontinue production of a necessary part or component, we would be required to expend significant resources and time in locating and integrating replacement parts or components from another vendor. qualifying additional suppliers for limited source parts or components can be time-consuming and expensive. our manufacturing partners have experienced long lead times for the purchase of components incorporated into our products. lead times for components may be adversely impacted by factors outside of our control, such as natural disasters and other factors. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts or components when required; financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers; infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; price increases; failure of a component to meet environmental or other regulatory requirements; failure to meet delivery obligations in a timely fashion; and 19 table of contents failure in component quality. the occurrence of any of these events would be disruptive to us and could seriously harm our business. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our distributors, resellers and end-customers. this could harm our relationships with our channel partners and end-customers and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, increased component costs could result in lower gross margins. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating expenses are incurred outside the u.s. these expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the euro and canadian dollar and, to a lesser extent, the british pound. additionally, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the canadian dollar may negatively impact our real estate purchase and development plans in vancouver and ottawa. while we are not currently engaged in material hedging activities, we have been hedging currency exposures relating to certain balance sheet accounts through the use of forward exchange contracts. if we stop hedging against any of these risks or if our attempts to hedge against these currency exposures are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore, while substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk, it does not serve as a hedge to our foreign currency-denominated operating expenses. in addition, a strengthening of the u.s. dollar may increase the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the u.s., which may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business could subject us to fines and penalties and could also cause us to lose end-customers in the public sector or negatively impact our ability to contract with the public sector. our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, product labelling, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, import and export controls, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations. in certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than in the u.s. noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages and civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. if any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. in addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management's attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. selling our solutions to the u.s. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, other penalties and damages, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. as an example, the u.s. department of justice ( doj ), on its own behalf or on behalf of the general services administration ( gsa ), as well as individuals, has in the past pursued claims against, reached financial settlements with or otherwise obtained damages from companies that sell electronic equipment and from it vendors under the false claims act and other statutes related to pricing, discount practices and compliance with laws related to sales to the federal government, such as the trade agreements act. the doj continues to actively pursue such claims. violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting. any of these outcomes could have an adverse effect on our revenue, operating results, financial condition and prospects. these laws and regulations impose added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements, including non-compliance in the past, could lead to claims for damages from our channel partners, penalties, termination of contracts, loss of exclusive rights in our intellectual property and temporary suspension or permanent debarment from government contracting. any such damages, penalties, disruptions or limitations in our ability to do business with the public sector could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. 20 table of contents we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or restrictions on sales, and could impair our ability to compete in international markets. because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, certain of our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the u.s. only with the required export license or through an export license exception, and may be prohibited altogether from export to certain countries. if we were to fail to comply with u.s. export laws, u.s. customs regulations and import regulations, u.s. economic sanctions and other countries' import and export laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. in addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits (for example, for stocking orders placed by our partners), we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties and we may not be able to provide support related to appliances shipped pursuant to such orders. obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. furthermore, u.s. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to u.s. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to u.s. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners, despite such precautions. any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations and penalties and reputational harm. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. efforts to withdraw from or materially modify nafta or other international trade agreements, to change tax provisions related to global manufacturing and sales or to impose new tariffs, economic sanctions or related legislation, any of which could our adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our business benefits from free trade agreements, such as the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ), and we also rely on various u.s. corporate tax provisions related to international commerce, as we develop, market and sell our products and services globally. efforts to withdraw from or materially modify nafta or other international trade agreements, or to change corporate tax policy related to international commerce, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as could the continuing uncertainty regarding whether such actions will be taken. moreover, efforts to implement changes related to export or import regulations (including the imposition of new border taxes or tariffs on foreign imports), economic sanctions or related policies. any modification in these areas, any shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or any change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential end-customers with international operations and could result in increased costs. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products, laws relating to our real property and future expansion plans and laws concerning the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include the eu rohs and the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive ( weee directive ), as well as the implementing legislation of the eu member states. similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in china, south korea, norway and japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the u.s., and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. 21 table of contents the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban the use of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. we have incurred costs to comply with these laws, including research and development costs, costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components and costs associated with writing off noncompliant inventory. we expect to continue to incur costs related to environmental laws and regulations in the future. with respect to the eu rohs, we and our competitors rely on an exemption for lead in network infrastructure equipment. it is possible this exemption will be revoked in the near future. if this exemption is revoked, if there are other changes to these laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. the eu has also adopted the weee directive, which requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. although currently our eu international channel partners are responsible for the requirements of this directive as the importer of record in most of the european countries in which we sell our products, changes in interpretation of the regulations may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements in the future to meet in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. our failure to comply with these and future environmental rules and regulations could result in reduced sales of our products, increased costs, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions. a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. sales to u.s. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to government organizations. sales to government organizations are subject to a number of risks. selling to government organizations can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense, with long sales cycles and without any assurance of winning a sale. government demand, sales and payment for our products and services may be negatively impacted by numerous factors and requirements unique to selling to government agencies, such as: public sector budgetary cycles; funding authorizations and requirements unique to government agencies, with funding or purchasing reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products; geopolitical matters; and rules and regulations applicable to certain government sales, including general services administration regulations. the rules and regulations applicable to sales to government organizations may also negatively impact sales to other organizations. to date, we have had limited traction in sales to u.s. federal government agencies, and any future sales to government organizations is uncertain. government organizations may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. for example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such government organization, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such distributor. governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors' administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way. finally, purchases by the u.s. government may require certain products to be manufactured in the u.s. and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the u.s. government. false detection of vulnerabilities, viruses or security breaches or false identification of spam or spyware could adversely affect our business. our antivirus and our intrusion prevention services may falsely detect viruses or other threats that do not actually exist. this risk is heightened by the inclusion of a heuristics feature in our products, which attempts to identify viruses and 22 table of contents other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies that may indicate that a particular item is a threat. when our end-customers enable the heuristics feature in our products, the risk of falsely identifying viruses and other threats significantly increases. these false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. also, our anti-spam and anti-malware services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent anti-spam or spyware products. parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. in addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may reduce the adoption of our products. if our system restricts important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect end-customers' systems and cause material system failures. in addition, our threat researchers periodically identify vulnerabilities in various third-party products, and, if these identifications are perceived to be incorrect or are in fact incorrect, this could harm our business. any such false identification or perceived false identification of important files, applications or vulnerabilities could result in negative publicity, loss of end-customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem and costly litigation. if our internal network system or our website is compromised, public perception of our products and services will be harmed, we may become subject to liability, and our business, operating results and stock price may be adversely impacted. our success depends on the market's confidence in our ability to provide effective network security protection. despite our efforts and processes to prevent breaches of our internal network system and website, we are still vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service and other cyber-attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized access to our internal network system or our website. our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees to transfer funds or disclose information in order to gain access to our network and confidential information. we cannot guarantee that the measures we have taken to protect our network and website will provide absolute security. moreover, because we provide network security products, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers. although we have not yet experienced significant damages from unauthorized access by a third party of our internal network or website, an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our internal systems or website could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services and investor confidence in our company. any breach of our network system or website could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services to our end-customers, lead to interruptions or system slowdowns, cause loss of critical data, or lead to the unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential, proprietary or sensitive information. we could also be subject to liability and litigation and reputational harm and our channel partners and end-customers may be harmed, lose confidence in us and decrease or cease using our products and services. any breach of our internal network system or our website could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. our ability to sell our products is dependent on the quality of our technical support services, and our failure to offer high quality technical support services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. once our products are deployed within our end-customers' networks, our end-customers depend on our technical support services, as well as the support of our channel partners and other third parties, to resolve any issues relating to our products. if we, our channel partners or other third parties do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. many large end-customers, service provider and government organization end-customers require higher levels of support than smaller end-customers because of their more complex deployments. if we, our channel partners or other third parties fail to meet the requirements of our larger end-customers, it may be more difficult to execute on our strategy to increase our penetration with large enterprises, service providers and government organizations. as a result, our failure to maintain high quality support services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, where a number of our subsidiaries are organized. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: 23 table of contents earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or withholding taxes; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; transfer pricing adjustments; an increase in non-deductible expenses for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; tax costs related to intercompany realignments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our provision for income taxes for the period in which the settlement takes place; a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings; changes in accounting principles; court decisions, tax rulings and interpretations of tax laws, and regulations by international, federal or local governmental authorities; or changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible changes in the u.s. to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income or the foreign tax credit rules, or changes to the u.s. income tax rate, which would necessitate a revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the financial accounting standards board standard. in addition, the standard applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which, if settled unfavorably, could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain foreign countries is subject to reduced tax rates and, in some cases, is wholly exempt from tax. our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. in addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities. tax authorities in france are currently examining the inter-company relationship between fortinet, inc., fortinet france and fortinet singapore. we are in the early stages of this inquiry and as of yet no official audit has been opened. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we currently do not have a valuation allowance, we may in the future be required to establish one. we will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. if the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits or effective tax rates in a given jurisdiction differs from our estimate, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, our actual tax rate may be subject to further uncertainty due to potential changes in u.s. and foreign tax rules. 24 table of contents as a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. the taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. the organisation for economic co-operation and development (the oecd ), an international association comprised of 34 countries, including the u.s., has been working on a base erosion and profit sharing project. as part of this project, the oecd issued in 2015, and is expected to continue to issue, guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. due to our extensive international business activities, any changes in the taxation of such activities could increase our tax obligations in many countries and may increase our worldwide effective tax rate. in addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the irs and other tax authorities. if tax authorities challenge the relative mix of u.s. and international income, our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected. while we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. in order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies and intellectual property, such as patents. for example, we closed our acquisitions of meru and accelops in the third quarter of 2015 and the second quarter of 2016, respectively. for any past acquisition or possible future acquisition, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product, technology or intellectual property and sales force into our existing business and operations. we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, intellectual property or products with our existing product lines, integrating reporting systems and procedures, and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. for example, we may experience difficulties integrating an acquired company's erp system, sales and support processes and systems, and other processes and systems with our current systems and processes. our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues, and we may not accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition. in addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may be dilutive to revenue growth and earnings and may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in impairment charges that could be substantial. we may have to pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity securities to pay for any acquisition, each of which could affect our financial condition or the value of our capital stock and could result in dilution to our stockholders. acquisitions during a quarter may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations for that period or future periods compared to the results that we have previously forecasted or achieved. further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating acquired businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property could significantly divert management time and resources. our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. our products are very complex and, despite testing prior to their release, have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. product errors have affected the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our end-customers' willingness to buy products from us, and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant end-customers, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. as a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products, 25 table of contents and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. the occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we generally have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the u.s. or other countries, and in some circumstances we may be required to indemnify a customer in full, without a limitation on liability, for certain liabilities, including potential liabilities that are not contractually limited. the sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. we maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not cover such claim at all or may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us, and in some instances may subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. in addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management's time and other resources. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as civil unrest, labor disruption, and terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, power outage, flood, or other catastrophic event could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity, and our research and development and data office center in vancouver, canada is subject to the risk of flooding and is also in a region known for seismic activity. in addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors, suppliers or logistics providers' ability to perform services, such as obtaining product components and manufacturing products, or assisting with shipments, on a timely basis, as well as our customers' ability to order from us and our employees' ability to perform their duties. in the event our or our service providers' information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in our missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. in addition, regional instability, civil unrest, labor disruptions, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers, or of the economy as a whole. given our typical concentration of sales at the end of each quarter, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. to the extent that any of the above results in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or in the delay of the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. risks related to our industry the network security market is rapidly evolving and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing end-customer needs, our competitive position and prospects will be harmed. the network security market is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. moreover, many of our end-customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly complex enterprise networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. in addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, while minimizing the impact on network performance. additionally, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new hardware architectures and asics that involve complex, expensive and time consuming research and development processes. although the market expects rapid introduction of new products or product enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain and there can be long time periods between releases and availability of new products. we have in the past and may in the future experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and services and fail to meet previously announced timetables for such availability. if we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our end-customers by developing and releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and services or enhancements that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. moreover, business models based on software-as-a-service ( saas ) and infrastructure-as-a-service ( iaas ), both of which are hosted or cloud-based services, have become increasingly in-demand by our end-customers and adopted by other providers, including our competitors. while part of our platform is cloud-based, most of our platform is currently deployed on 26 table of contents premise, and therefore, if customers demand that our platform be provided through a saas or iaas business model, we would be required to make additional investments in our infrastructure and personnel to be able to more fully provide our platform through a saas or iaas model in order to maintain the competitiveness of our platform. such investments may involve expanding our data centers, servers and networks, and increasing our technical operations and engineering teams. these risks are compounded by the uncertainty concerning the future viability of saas and iaas business models and the future demand for such models by customers. additionally, if we are unable to meet the demand to provide our services through a saas or iaas model, we may lose customers to competitors. our uniform resource locator ( url ) database for our web filtering service may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth of urls and may not categorize websites in accordance with our end-customers ' expectations. the success of our web filtering service depends on the breadth and accuracy of our url database. although our url database currently catalogs millions of unique urls, it contains only a portion of the urls for all of the websites that are available on the internet. in addition, the total number of urls and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth to continue in the future. accordingly, we must identify and categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate. our database and technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of websites, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the internet. further, the ongoing evolution of the internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our web filtering function. any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the internet could impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our web filtering service may not be successful in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our end-customers' expectations. we rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize websites and software applications in our proprietary databases. our end-customers may not agree with our determinations that particular urls should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. in addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place material that is objectionable or that presents a security risk in categories that are generally unrestricted by our customers' internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. conversely, we may miscategorize websites such that access is denied to websites containing information that is important or valuable to our customers. any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. any failure to effectively categorize and filter websites according to our end-customers' and channel partners' expectations could impair the growth of our business. if our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. we spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new products and enhanced versions of our existing products in order to incorporate additional features, improved functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers' rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. when we develop a new product or an enhanced version of an existing product, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing our new products or enhancements to the market; failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; failure of our sales force and partners to focus on selling new products; inability to interoperate effectively with the networks or applications of our prospective end-customers; inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; actual or perceived defects, vulnerabilities, errors or failures; 27 table of contents negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay it purchases; changes to the regulatory requirements around security; and reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. demand for our products may be limited by market perception that individual products from one vendor that provide multiple layers of security protection in one product are inferior to point solution network security solutions from multiple vendors. sales of many of our products depend on increased demand for incorporating broad security functionality in one appliance. if the market for these products fails to grow as we anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. target customers may view all-in-one network security solutions as inferior to security solutions from multiple vendors because of, among other things, their perception that such products of ours provide security functions from only a single vendor and do not allow users to choose best-of-breed defenses from among the wide range of dedicated security applications available. target customers might also perceive that, by combining multiple security functions into a single platform, our solutions create a single point of failure in their networks, which means that an error, vulnerability or failure of our product may place the entire network at risk. in addition, the market perception that all-in-one solutions may be suitable only for small- and medium-sized businesses because such solution lacks the performance capabilities and functionality of other solutions may harm our sales to large enterprise, service provider and government organization end-customers. if the foregoing concerns and perceptions become prevalent, even if there is no factual basis for these concerns and perceptions, or if other issues arise with our market in general, demand for multi-security functionality products could be severely limited, which would limit our growth and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, a successful and publicized targeted attack against us, exposing a single point of failure, could significantly increase these concerns and perceptions and may harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in our market and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. the market for network security products is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. our competitors include companies such as check point, cisco, f5 networks, fireeye, intel, juniper, palo alto networks, sonicwall, sophos and symantec. many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as: greater name recognition and longer operating histories; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers; access to larger customer bases; greater customer support resources; greater resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and 28 table of contents substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings, and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages customers from purchasing our products. these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus, and are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets. therefore, these competitors will not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of network security threat are often able to deliver these specialized network security products to the market more quickly than we can. some of our smaller competitors are using third-party chips designed to accelerate performance. conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. our competitors and potential competitors may also be able to develop products or services that are equal or superior to ours, achieve greater market acceptance of their products and services, and increase sales by utilizing different distribution channels than we do. our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. in addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources, and new competitors may arise pursuant to acquisitions of network security companies or divisions. as a result of such acquisitions, competition in our market may continue to increase and our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily, or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. due to budget constraints or economic downturns, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing network security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with our solutions. these competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. if functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our appliances to their network, which would have an adverse effect on our business. large, well-established providers of networking equipment such as cisco, f5 networks and juniper offer, and may continue to introduce, network security features that compete with our products, either in standalone security products or as additional features in their network infrastructure products. the inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our security solutions in networking products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. furthermore, even if the functionality offered by network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor such as us. many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of networking products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from other vendors such as us. in addition, an organization's existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only network security products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. if organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our products without compensating us. we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or products. any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. patent applications in the u.s. are typically not published until at least 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a 29 table of contents timely manner. in addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the u.s. may bring into question the validity of certain software patents and may make it more difficult and costly to prosecute patent applications. as a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or effectively enforce our issued patents. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot guarantee that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. policing unauthorized use of our technology or products is difficult. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the u.s., and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the u.s. from time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and products protected other than by patent rights), we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. our products contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including the gnu public license, the gnu lesser public license, the bsd license, the apache license the mit x license and the mozilla public license. from time to time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants' intellectual property rights. we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by u.s. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make our proprietary code generally available in source code form, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which requirements could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other litigation matters could harm our business. patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network security industry. third parties are currently asserting, have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us. they have also asserted such claims against our end-customers or channel partners whom we may indemnify against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. any claim of infringement by a third-party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. in addition, litigation may involve patent holding companies, non-practicing entities or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable, and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. 30 table of contents alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense, and may ultimately not be successful. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we are subject to lawsuits claiming patent infringement. we are also subject to other litigation in addition to patent infringement claims, such as employment-related litigation and disputes, as well as general commercial litigation, and could become subject to other forms of litigation and disputes, including stockholder litigation. if we are unsuccessful in defending any such claims, our operating results and financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. for example, we may be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling certain of our products. litigation, with or without merit, could negatively impact our business, reputation and sales in a material fashion. we have several ongoing patent lawsuits, several non-practicing entity patent holding companies have sent us letters proposing that we license certain of their patents and organizations have sent letters demanding that we provide indemnification for patent claims. given this and the proliferation of lawsuits in our industry and other similar industries by both non-practicing entities and operating entities, we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. the cost to defend such lawsuits and any adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on the availability of third-party licenses. many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. risks related to ownership of our common stock as a public company, we are subject to compliance initiatives that will require substantial time from our management and result in significantly increased costs that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sarbanes-oxley ), dodd-frank and other rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq stock market impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. these requirements, as well as proposed corporate governance laws and regulations under consideration, may further increase our compliance costs. if compliance with these various legal and regulatory requirements diverts our management's attention from other business concerns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. sarbanes-oxley requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually, and of our disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. although our most recent assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of december 31, 2016, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in 2017 or future periods. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices, and varying interpretations of existing or new accounting pronouncements, such as changes to standards related to revenue recognition (which are effective for us beginning on january 1, 2018) and accounting for leases, as well as the significant costs that may be incurred to adopt and to comply with these new pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. if we do not ensure that our systems and processes are aligned with the new standards, we could encounter difficulties generating quarterly and annual financial statements in a timely manner, which would have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to meet our reporting obligations. 31 table of contents if securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. if we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this periodic report, news about us and our financial results, news about our competitors and their results, and other factors such as rumors or fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us, or announcements regarding any stock repurchase programs and the timing and amount of shares we purchase under such programs. for example, during 2016, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $23.83 to $37.17 per share. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. our corporate governance documents include provisions: providing for a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; providing that certain litigation matters may only be brought against us in state or federal courts in the state of delaware; controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. 32 table of contents as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate fluctuation risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and investments in a variety of securities, including corporate debt securities, money market funds, commercial paper, municipal bonds, u.s. government and agency securities, and certificates of deposit and term deposits. the risk associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio. a 10% decrease in interest rates in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 would have resulted in an insignificant decrease in our interest income in each of these periods. 57 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency translation risk. however, a substantial portion of our operating expenses incurred outside the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the canadian dollar ( cad ), the euro ( eur ), the british pound ( gbp ) and the chinese yen ( cny ). to help protect against significant fluctuations in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we engage in foreign currency risk management activities to minimize the impact of balance sheet items denominated in cad. we do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. all of the derivative instruments are with high quality financial institutions and we monitor the credit worthiness of these parties. these contracts typically have a maturity of one month. we record changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts related to balance sheet accounts as other expense in the consolidated statement of operations. we recognized an expense of $6.6 million in other expense net, in 2016 due to foreign currency transaction losses. our use of forward exchange contracts is intended to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, are relatively short-term in nature and are focused on the cad, long-term material changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, such as the eur, gbp, and cny could adversely impact our operating expenses in the future. we assessed the risk of loss in fair values from the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates. for foreign currency exchange rate risk, a 10% increase or decrease of foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a $5.8 million change in the value of our foreign currency cash balances as of december 31, 2016. inflation risk our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are not affected significantly by inflation because they are short-term. we believe the impact of inflation on replacement costs of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. the rate of inflation, however, affects our cost of revenue and expenses, such as those for employee compensation, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of products and services offered by us. 58 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. investors should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially, and investors may lose some or all of their investment. risks related to our business our operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control or may be difficult to predict, including: our ability to attract and retain new end-customers or sell additional products and subscriptions to our existing end-customers; the level of demand for our products and services, which may render forecasts inaccurate; the timing of channel partner and end-customer orders, and our reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of each quarter; the timing of shipments, which may depend on factors such as inventory levels, logistics, manufacturing or shipping delays, our ability to ship new products on schedule and our ability to accurately forecast inventory requirements; inventory management; the mix of products sold and the mix of revenue between products and services, as well as the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; the purchasing practices and budgeting cycles of our channel partners and end-customers; the effectiveness of our sales organization, generally or in a particular geographic region, the time it takes to hire sales personnel and the timing of hiring, and our ability to retain, sales personnel; the seasonal buying patterns of our end-customers; the timing and level of our investments in sales and marketing, and the impact of such investments on our operating expenses, operating margin and the productivity and effectiveness of execution of our sales and marketing teams; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales; the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; changes in the requirements, market needs or buying practices and patterns of our distributors, resellers or end-customers; changes in the growth rate of the network security market; the timing and success of new product and service introductions or enhancements by us or our competitors, or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors, partners or end-customers; 9 table of contents the deferral of orders from distributors, resellers or end-customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; increases or decreases in our billings, revenue and expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or a strengthening of the u.s. dollar, as a significant portion of our expenses is incurred and paid in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and the impact such fluctuations may have on the actual prices that our partners and customers are willing to pay for our products and services; compliance with existing laws and regulations that are applicable to our ability to conduct business with the public sector; the impact of cloud-based platforms on the timing of our revenue recognition, billings and free cash flow; decisions by potential end-customers to purchase network security solutions from newer technology providers, from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; price competition and increased competitiveness in our market; our ability to both increase revenues and manage and control operating expenses in order to improve our operating margins; changes in customer renewal rates for our services; changes in the payment terms of services contracts or the length of services contracts sold; changes in our estimated annual effective tax rates; changes in circumstances and challenges in business conditions, including decreased demand, which may negatively impact our channel partners' ability to sell the current inventory they hold and negatively impact their future purchases of products from us; increased demand for cloud-based services and the uncertainty associated with transitioning to providing such services; increased expenses, unforeseen liabilities or write-downs and any impact on results of operations from any acquisition consummated; our channel partners having insufficient financial resources to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions; disruptions in our channel or termination of our relationship with important channel partners, including as a result of consolidation among distributors and resellers of security solutions; insolvency, credit or other difficulties confronting our key suppliers and channel partners, which could affect their ability to purchase or pay for products and services and which could disrupt our supply or distribution chain; policy changes and uncertainty with respect to immigration laws, trade policy, foreign imports and tax laws related to international commerce; political, economic and social instability; general economic conditions, both in domestic and foreign markets; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies, such as changes in the revenue recognition standards or accounting for leases, as well as the significant costs that may be incurred to adopt and comply with these new pronouncements; 10 table of contents possible impairments or acceleration of depreciation of our existing real estate due to our current real estate holdings and future development plans; and legislative or regulatory changes, such as with respect to privacy, information and cybersecurity, exports, the environment and applicable accounting standards. any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial and other operating results. this variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. if we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. in addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature over the near term. accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. in addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. weak global economic conditions and spending environments, weak economic conditions in certain regions or a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macro-economic conditions could have adverse impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our channel partners, reduced unit sales and slower or declining growth. our billings, revenue, operating margin and free cash flow growth may slow or may not continue. we may experience slowing growth, or a decrease, in billings, revenue, operating margin and free cash flow for a number of reasons, including a slowdown in demand for our products or services, a shift in demand from products to services, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market or softness in demand in certain geographies or industry verticals, such as the service provider industry, changes in our strategic opportunities and our failure for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities and due to other risks identified in the risk factors described in this periodic report. our expenses as a percentage of total revenue may be higher than expected if our revenue is lower than expected and, if our investments in sales and marketing and other functional areas do not result in expected billings and revenue growth, we may experience margin declines and may not be able to sustain profitability in future periods if we fail to increase billings, revenue or deferred revenue, do not appropriately manage our cost structure and free cash flow or encounter unanticipated liabilities. any failure by us to maintain profitability, maintain our margins and continue our billings, revenue and free cash flow growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. 11 table of contents we rely significantly on revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services, and revenue from these services may decline or fluctuate. because we recognize revenue from these services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales of fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue has historically accounted for a significant percentage of our total revenue. revenue from the sale of new, or from the renewal of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support service contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in purchases of fortigate appliances, changes in the sales mix between products and services, end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors, reductions in our customers' spending levels and the timing of revenue recognition with respect to these arrangements. if our sales of new, or renewals of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support service contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business could suffer. in addition, in the event significant customers require payment terms for fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services in arrears or for shorter periods of time than annually, such as monthly or quarterly, this may negatively impact our billings and revenue. furthermore, we recognize fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically from one to three years, to a lesser extent, five years. as a result, much of the fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts entered into during previous quarters or years. consequently, a decline in new or renewed fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales of new, or renewals of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services is not reflected in full in our statements of operations until future periods. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal support services contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. we generate a majority of revenue from sales to distributors, resellers and end-customers outside of the united states, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. we market and sell our products throughout the world and have established sales offices in many parts of the world. our international sales have represented a majority of our total revenue in recent periods. therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. we are also subject to a number of risks typically associated with international sales and operations, including: economic or political instability in foreign markets; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and accounts receivable collection, including longer collection periods; longer sales processes for larger deals, particularly during the summer months; changes in regulatory requirements; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; costs of compliance with foreign policies, laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such policies, laws and regulations; protectionist policies and penalties, and local laws, requirements, policies and perceptions that may adversely impact a u.s.-headquartered business's sales in certain countries outside of the united states; costs of complying with, and the risks and costs of non-compliance with, u.s. or other foreign laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act 2010, the general data protection regulation (which will be implemented by the european union in may 2018), import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers and economic sanctions; 12 table of contents other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales or sales-related arrangements that could disrupt the sales team through terminations of employment or otherwise, and may adversely impact financial results as compared to those already reported or forecasted and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; our ability to effectively implement and maintain adequate internal controls to properly manage our international sales and operations; the potential for political unrest, changes and uncertainty, and for terrorism, hostilities, war or natural disasters; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; and changes in tax, employment and other laws. product and service sales and employee and contractor matters may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. further, we may be unable to keep up-to-date with changes in government requirements as they change over time. failure to comply with these regulations could result in adverse effects to our business. in many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in litigation, regulatory action, costs of investigation, delays in revenue recognition, delays in financial reporting, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. if we are not successful in continuing to execute our strategy to increase our sales to large and medium-sized end-customers, our results of operations may suffer. an important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of our products to large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations. while we have increased sales in recent periods to large and medium-sized businesses, our sales volume varies by quarter. such sales are often for a longer contract term and may be at higher discount levels. we also have experienced uneven traction selling to certain government organizations and service providers, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful selling to these customers. sales to these organizations involve risks that may not be present, or that are present to a lesser extent, with sales to smaller entities. these risks include: increased competition from competitors that traditionally target large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations and that may already have purchase commitments from those end-customers; increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end-customers in negotiating contractual arrangements; unanticipated changes in the capital resources or purchasing behavior of large end-customers, including changes in the volume and frequency of their purchases and changes in the mix of products and services and related payment terms; more stringent support requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, more complex requirements and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end-customer that elects not to purchase our products and services; and 13 table of contents longer ramp-up periods for enterprise sales personnel as compared to other sales personnel. large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases longer than 12 months. although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with end-customers, along with our distributors and resellers, in connection with sales to large and medium-sized end-customers. we may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without being successful in producing any sales. in addition, product purchases by large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. furthermore, service providers represent our largest industry vertical and consolidation or continued changes in buying behavior by larger customers within this industry could negatively impact our business. large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations typically have longer implementation cycles, require greater product functionality and scalability, expect a broader range of services, including design services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. in addition, large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations may require that our products and services be sold differently from how we offer our products and services, which could negatively impact our operating results. our large business and service provider customers may also become more deliberate in their purchases as they plan their next-generation network security architecture, leading them to take more time in making purchasing decisions or to purchase based only on their immediate needs. all these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. in addition, if sales expected from a large and medium-sized end-customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. insufficient inventory may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. managing our inventory is complex. our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders or not place orders commensurate with our expectations if their inventory is too high, return products or take advantage of price protection (if any is available to the particular partner) or delay orders in anticipation of new products, and accurately forecasting inventory requirements and demand can be challenging. our channel partners also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-customer demand. furthermore, if the time required to manufacture or ship certain products increases for any reason, inventory shortfalls could result. management of our inventory is further complicated by the significant number of different products and models that we sell which may impact our billings, revenue and free cash flow. mismanagement of our inventory, whether due to imprecise forecasting, employee errors or malfeasance, inaccurate information or otherwise, may adversely affect our results of operations. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, or excess inventory levels. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. alternatively, insufficient inventory levels may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-customers turn to competitors' products that are readily available. for example, we have in the past experienced inventory shortages and excesses due to the variance in demand for certain products from forecasted amounts. in addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our results of operations. our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage inventory. if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our channel partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 table of contents we are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute on our business plan and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. the loss of services of members of senior management, particularly ken xie, our co-founder, chief executive officer and chairman or michael xie, our co-founder, president and chief technology officer, or of any of our senior sales leaders or functional area leaders, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. in february 2018, we underwent a transition in senior management as drew del matto resigned as our chief financial officer and keith jensen was appointed as our interim chief financial officer. the loss of the services or the distraction of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering, sales and marketing, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we experience turnover in our management-level personnel. none of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially for qualified employees in network security and especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for highly skilled personnel, such as the san francisco bay area and vancouver, canada. we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. changes in immigration laws, including changes to the rules regarding h1-b visas, may also harm our ability to attract personnel from other countries. if we do not increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, we may have difficulty adding new end-customers or increasing sales to our existing end-customers and our business may be adversely affected. although we have a channel sales model, members of our sales organization often engage in direct interaction with our prospective end-customers. therefore, we continue to be substantially dependent on our sales organization to obtain new end-customers and sell additional products and services to our existing end-customers. there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. our ability to grow our revenue depends, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth and on the effectiveness of those personnel. new hires require substantial training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. for example, we realigned our sales organization in early 2016 and it has taken more time than we expected to ramp up the productivity of our realigned sales organization. furthermore, hiring sales personnel in new countries requires additional setup and upfront costs that we may not recover if the sales personnel fail to achieve full productivity. if our sales employees do not become fully productive on the timelines that we have projected, our revenue will not increase at anticipated levels and our ability to achieve long-term projections may be negatively impacted. if we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new end-customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business, operating results and prospects will be adversely affected. 15 table of contents the sales prices of our products and services may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and operating margin, and which may adversely impact our financial results and the trading price of our common stock. the sales prices for our products and services may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts or promotional programs we offer, a change in our mix of products and services and anticipation of the introduction of new products and services. competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products and services that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or services or may bundle them with other products or services. additionally, although we price our products and services worldwide in u.s. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions. furthermore, we anticipate that the sales prices and gross profits for our products or services will decrease over product life cycles. we cannot ensure that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product and service offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices, gross profits and operating margin at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our billings and revenue to fall below expected levels. as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas, we have historically received a substantial portion of each quarter's sales orders and generated a substantial portion of each quarter's billings and revenue during the last two weeks of the quarter. if expected orders at the end of any quarter are delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, our logistics partners' inability to ship products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the quarter, our failure to accurately forecast our inventory requirements and to appropriately manage inventory to meet demand, our inability to release new products on schedule, any failure of our systems related to order review and processing, any delays in shipments due to trade compliance requirements, labor disputes or logistics changes at shipping ports or otherwise, our billings and revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. unless we continue to develop better market awareness of our company and our products, and to improve lead generation and sales enablement, our revenue may not continue to grow. increased market awareness of our capabilities and products and increased lead generation are essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large businesses, service provider and government organization market. we have historically had relatively low spending on marketing activities. while we have increased our investments in sales and marketing, it is not clear that these investments will continue to result in increased revenue. if our investments in additional sales personnel or if our marketing programs are not successful in continuing to create market awareness of our company and products or increasing lead generation, or if we experience turnover and disruption in our sales and marketing teams, we will not be able to achieve sustained growth, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. we rely on third-party channel partners to generate substantially all of our revenue. if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited, and if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results will be harmed. a significant portion of our sales is generated through a limited number of distributors, and substantially all of our revenue is generated through sales by our channel partners, including distributors and resellers. we depend on our channel partners to generate a significant portion of our sales opportunities and to manage our sales process. to the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or we are unable to enter into arrangements with and retain a sufficient number of high-quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, or if we are unable to keep them motivated to sell our products, our ability to sell our products and operating results will be harmed. the termination of our relationship with any significant channel partner may adversely impact our sales and operating results. 16 table of contents we provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them in selling our products and incentivize them to sell our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. in addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services and may purchase more inventory than they can sell. our channel partners generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions. in addition, if our channel partners' financial condition or operations weaken it could negatively impact their ability to sell our product and services. our channel partners may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products. they may also have incentives to promote our competitors' products to the detriment of our own, or they may cease selling our products altogether. we cannot ensure that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement partners or that existing channel partners will continue to perform. the loss of one or more of our significant channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter through them could harm our operating results. in addition, we may be impacted by consolidation of our existing channel partners. in such instances, we may experience changes to our overall business and operational relationships due to dealing with a larger combined entity, and our ability to maintain such relationships on favorable contractual terms may be more limited. we may also become increasingly dependent on a more limited number of channel partners, as consolidation increases the relative proportion of our business for which each channel partner is responsible, which may magnify the risks described in the preceding paragraphs. in july 2017, exclusive, which distributes our solutions to a large group of resellers and end-customers, acquired fine tec u.s. since the acquisition of fine tec u.s., exclusive's business with us has increased and may continue to increase in the future. the two channel partners together accounted for 35% of our total net accounts receivable as of december 31, 2017 and 25% of our total revenue during 2017. in the fourth quarter of 2017, the combined exclusive/fine tec u.s. entity accounted for 30% of our total revenue. during 2015 and 2016, exclusive accounted for 18% and 20% of our total revenue, respectively. in addition, any new sales channel partner will require extensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end-customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. we depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if we fail to optimize our channel partner model or fail to manage existing sales channels, our business will be seriously harmed. actual, possible or perceived defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, the failure of our products or services to prevent a virus or security breach or the misuse of our products could harm our reputation and divert resources. because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our customers. defects or vulnerabilities may impede or block network traffic, cause our products or services to be vulnerable to electronic break-ins or cause them to fail to help secure networks. different customers deploy and use our products in different ways, and certain deployments and usages may subject our products to adverse conditions that may negatively impact the effectiveness and useful lifetime of our products. our networks and products, including cloud-based technology and subscriptions, could be targeted by attacks specifically designed to disrupt our business and harm our reputation. we cannot ensure that our products will prevent all security threats. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. in addition, defects or errors in our fortiguard security subscription updates or our fortigate appliances could result in a failure of our fortiguard security subscription services to effectively update end-customers' fortigate appliances and cloud-based products and thereby leave customers vulnerable to attacks. furthermore, our solutions may also fail to detect or prevent viruses, worms or similar threats due to a number of reasons such as the evolving nature of such threats and the continual emergence of new threats that we may fail to add to our fortiguard databases in time to protect our end-customers' networks. our fortiguard or forticare data centers and networks may also experience technical failures and downtime, and may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or fail to meet the increased requirements of our customer base. any such technical failure, downtime or failures in general may temporarily or permanently expose our end-customers' networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. an actual, possible or perceived security breach or infection of the network of one of our end-customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services to prevent the security breach, could adversely affect the market's perception of our security products and services and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. we may not be able to correct any security flaws or vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. our products may also be misused by end-customers or third parties who obtain access to our products. for example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the internet. such use of our products for censorship could result in negative 17 table of contents press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, even if we take reasonable measures to prevent any improper shipment of our products or if our products are provided by an unauthorized third party. any actual, possible or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, or misuse of our products, could result in: the expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; the loss of existing or potential end-customers or channel partners; delayed or lost revenue; delay or failure to attain market acceptance; negative publicity and harm to our reputation; and litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. our business and operations have experienced growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, including through the expansion of our real estate holdings, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results will be negatively affected. our business has grown over the last several years. we rely heavily on information technology and accounting systems to help manage critical functions such as order processing, revenue recognition, financial forecasts, inventory and supply chain management and trade compliance reviews. certain of these systems were developed by us for our internal use and, as such, may have a higher risk of failure or not receive the same level of support as systems purchased from and supported by external technology companies. in addition, we have been slow to adopt and implement certain automated functions, which could have a negative impact on our business. for example, a large part of our order processing relies on manual data entry of customer purchase orders received through email and, to a lesser extent, through electronic data interchange from our customers. combined with the fact that we may receive a large amount of our orders in the last few weeks of any given quarter, an interruption in our email service or other systems could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased billings and revenue for that quarter. to manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. we may not be able to successfully implement requisite improvements to these systems, controls and processes, such as system capacity, access and change management controls, in a timely or efficient manner. our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, whether as a result of the significant growth of our business or otherwise, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. moreover, the failure of our systems and processes could undermine our ability to provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results and could impact the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. our productivity and the quality of our products and services may also be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our results of operations. we have expanded our office real estate holdings to meet our projected growing need for office space. we purchased office buildings in ottawa and burnaby, canada in 2017, and we have purchased various small buildings adjacent to our sunnyvale headquarters as we expand our headquarters in sunnyvale, california. these plans will require significant capital expenditure over the next several years and involve certain risks, including impairment charges and acceleration of depreciation, changes in future business strategy that may decrease the need for expansion (such as a decrease in headcount) and, risks related to construction. future changes in growth or fluctuations in cash flow may also negatively impact our ability to pay for these projects or free cash flow. additionally, inaccuracies in our projected capital expenditures could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. 18 table of contents we may experience difficulties maintaining and expanding our erp and crm systems. the maintenance of our erp and crm systems has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant financial and human resources. in addition, we may choose to upgrade or expand the functionality of our erp and crm systems, leading to additional costs. we may also discover deficiencies in our design or maintenance of the erp or crm systems that could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, accurately maintain books and records, provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results, or otherwise operate our business. additionally, if the system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected or our ability to assess it adequately could be delayed. further, we recently implemented new systems to comply with the new revenue recognition standard and may further expand the scope of our erp and crm systems. our operating results may be adversely affected if these upgrades or expansions are delayed or if the systems do not function as intended or are not sufficient to meet our revenue recognition accounting requirements. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. additionally, in connection with adopting and implementing the new revenue accounting standard, management will make judgments and assumptions based on our interpretation of the new standard. the new revenue standard is principles based and interpretation of those principles may vary from company to company based on their unique circumstances. it is possible that interpretation, industry practice and guidance may evolve as we work toward implementing the new standard. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition and sales return reserves, stock-based compensation expense, valuation of inventory, investments, accounting for business combination, goodwill and other long-lived assets, restructuring, accounting for income taxes, and litigation and settlement costs. we offer retroactive price protection to certain of our major distributors, and if we fail to balance their inventory with end-customer demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we provide certain of our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. if we reduce the list price of our products, certain distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the levels of our major distributors' inventories. if future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 19 table of contents because we depend on several third-party manufacturers to build our products, we are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers, and third-party manufacturing cost increases could result in lower gross margins and free cash flow. we outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to contract manufacturing partners and original design manufacturing partners including micro-star international co., ltd., wistron corporation, flex ltd., senao networks, inc., adlink technology, inc. and a number of manufacturers located in taiwan and other countries outside the united states. our reliance on our third-party manufacturers in asia and elsewhere reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance and product costs, supply and timing. any manufacturing disruption by our third-party manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, increased manufacturing lead-times, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our business would be seriously harmed. these manufacturers fulfill our supply requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders. we have no long-term contracts or arrangements with our third-party manufacturers that guarantee capacity, the continuation of particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for manufacturing services could be increased on short notice. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers would be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs, which could adversely affect our gross margins. our individual product lines are generally manufactured by only one manufacturing partner. any production or shipping interruptions for any reason, such as a natural disaster, epidemic, capacity shortages, quality problems or strike or other labor disruption at one of our manufacturing partners or locations or at shipping ports or locations, would severely affect sales of our product lines manufactured by that manufacturing partner. furthermore, manufacturing cost increases for any reason could result in lower gross margins. our proprietary spu, which is the key to the performance of our appliances, is built by contract manufacturers including faraday, megachips corporation and renesas. these contract manufacturers use foundries operated by umc, tsmc or renesas on a purchase-order basis, and these foundries do not guarantee their capacity and could reject orders or increase their pricing. accordingly, the foundries are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and due to the long lead time that a new foundry would require, we could suffer temporary or long-term inventory shortages of our spu as well as increased costs. in addition to our proprietary spu, we also purchase off-the-shelf asics from vendors for which we have experienced, and may continue to experience, long lead times. our suppliers may also prioritize orders by other companies that order higher volumes or more profitable products. if any of these manufacturers materially delays its supply of asics or specific product models to us, or requires us to find an alternate supplier and we are not able to do so on a timely and reasonable basis, or if these foundries materially increase their prices for fabrication of our asics, our business would be harmed. in addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries limits our control over environmental regulatory requirements such as the hazardous substance content of our products and therefore our ability to ensure compliance with the restriction of hazardous substances directive (the eu rohs ) adopted in the european union (the eu ) and other similar laws. it also exposes us to the risk that certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, that are contained in our products have originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. as a result of the passage of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( dodd-frank ), the sec adopted disclosure requirements for public companies whose products contain conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of such products. under these rules, we are required to obtain sourcing data from suppliers, perform supply chain due diligence, and file annually with the sec a specialized disclosure report on form sd covering the prior calendar year. although the sec has provided guidance with respect to a portion of the conflict minerals filing requirements that somewhat reduced the reporting required, we have incurred and expect to incur additional costs to comply with the rules, including costs related to efforts to determine the origin, source and chain of custody of the conflict minerals used in our products and the adoption of conflict minerals-related governance policies, processes and controls. moreover, the implementation of these compliance measures could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products to the extent that there may be only a limited number of suppliers that are able to meet our sourcing requirements. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such materials in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to not purchase our products, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. 20 table of contents because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, we are susceptible to supply shortages, long lead times for components, and supply changes, each of which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers, result in inventory shortage, cause loss of sales and customers or increase component costs resulting in lower gross margins and free cash flow. we and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key parts and components used in the manufacture of our products from limited sources of supply. we are therefore subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times in the supply of these components and the risk that component suppliers discontinue or modify components used in our products. we have in the past experienced, and are currently experiencing, shortages and long lead times for certain components. certain of our limited source components for particular appliances and suppliers of those components include: specific types of cpus from intel, network chips from broadcom, marvell and intel, and memory devices from intel, adata, ocz, samsung and western digital. we also may face shortages in the supply of the capacitors and resistors that are used in the manufacturing of our products. the introduction by component suppliers of new versions of their products, particularly if not anticipated by us or our contract manufacturers, could require us to expend significant resources to incorporate these new components into our products. in addition, if these suppliers were to discontinue production of a necessary part or component, we would be required to expend significant resources and time in locating and integrating replacement parts or components from another vendor. qualifying additional suppliers for limited source parts or components can be time-consuming and expensive. our manufacturing partners have experienced long lead times for the purchase of components incorporated into our products. lead times for components may be adversely impacted by factors outside of our control, such as natural disasters and other factors. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts or components when required; financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers; infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; price increases; failure of a component to meet environmental or other regulatory requirements; failure to meet delivery obligations in a timely fashion; and failure in component quality. the occurrence of any of these events would be disruptive to us and could seriously harm our business. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our distributors, resellers and end-customers. this could harm our relationships with our channel partners and end-customers and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, increased component costs could result in lower gross margins. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating expenses are incurred outside the united states. these expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the euro and canadian dollar and, to a lesser extent, the british pound. additionally, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the canadian dollar may negatively impact our development plans in burnaby, canada. while we are not currently engaged in material hedging activities, we have been hedging currency exposures relating to certain balance sheet accounts through the use of forward exchange contracts. if we stop hedging against any of these risks or if our attempts to hedge against these currency exposures are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore, while substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk, it does not serve as a hedge to our foreign currency-denominated operating expenses. in addition, a strengthening of the u.s. dollar may increase the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the united states, which may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business could subject us to fines and penalties and could also cause us to lose end-customers in the public sector or negatively impact our ability to contract with the public sector. our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, product labeling, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, data privacy laws, import and export controls, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations. in certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than in the united states. noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages and civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. if any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. in addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management's attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. for example, with respect to data privacy, in april 2016, the european parliament approved the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), which will come into effect in may 2018 and supersede current eu data protection regulations. the gdpr will impose stringent data handling requirements on companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the eu, and non-compliance with the gdpr could result in significant penalties, including data protection audits and heavy fines. compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, the gdpr may limit our ability to operate or expand our business in europe and could adversely impact our operating results. any noncompliance with the gdpr, whether perceived or actual, could also adversely impact our operating results. selling our solutions to the u.s. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, other penalties and damages, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. as an example, the u.s. department of justice (the doj ), on its own behalf or on behalf of the general services administration (the gsa ), as well as individuals, has in the past pursued claims against, reached financial settlements with or otherwise obtained damages from companies that sell electronic equipment and from it vendors under the false claims act and other statutes related to pricing, discount practices and compliance with laws related to sales to the federal government, such as the trade agreements act. the doj continues to actively pursue such claims. violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting. any of these outcomes could have an adverse effect on our revenue, operating results, financial condition and prospects. see part i, item 3 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information on our legal proceedings. these laws and regulations impose added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements, including non-compliance in the past, could lead to claims for damages from our channel partners, penalties, termination of contracts, loss of exclusive rights in our intellectual property and temporary suspension or permanent debarment from government contracting. any such damages, penalties, disruptions or limitations in our ability to do business with the public sector could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or restrictions on sales, and could impair our ability to compete in international markets. because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, certain of our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the united states only with the required export license or through an export license exception, and may be prohibited altogether from export to certain countries. if we were to fail to comply with u.s. export laws, u.s. customs regulations and import regulations, u.s. economic sanctions and other countries' import and export laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. in addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits (e.g. for stocking orders placed by our partners), we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties and we may not be able to provide support related to appliances shipped pursuant to such orders. obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. 22 table of contents furthermore, u.s. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to u.s. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to u.s. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners, despite such precautions. any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations and penalties and reputational harm. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. efforts to withdraw from or materially modify nafta or other international trade agreements, to change tax provisions related to global manufacturing and sales or to impose new tariffs, economic sanctions or related legislation, any of which could our adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our business benefits from free trade agreements, such as the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ), and we also rely on various u.s. corporate tax provisions related to international commerce, as we develop, market and sell our products and services globally. efforts to withdraw from or materially modify nafta or other international trade agreements, or to change corporate tax policy related to international commerce, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as could the continuing uncertainty regarding whether such actions will be taken. moreover, efforts to implement changes related to export or import regulations (including the imposition of new border taxes or tariffs on foreign imports), economic sanctions or related policies. any modification in these areas, any shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or any change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential end-customers with international operations and could result in increased costs. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products, laws relating to our real property and future expansion plans and laws concerning the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include the eu rohs and the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (the weee directive ), as well as the implementing legislation of the eu member states. similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in china, south korea, norway and japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the united states, and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban the use of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury, cadmium and certain plastic additives in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. we have incurred costs to comply with these laws, including research and development costs, costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components and costs associated with writing off noncompliant inventory. we expect to continue to incur costs related to environmental laws and regulations in the future. with respect to the eu rohs, we and our competitors rely on exemptions for lead and other substances in network infrastructure equipment. it is possible this exemption will be revoked in the future. additionally, although we have filed for an extension, it is possible that this exemption may expire in the future without being extended. if this exemption is revoked or expires without extension, if there are other changes to these laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. 23 table of contents the eu has also adopted the weee directive, which requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. although currently our eu international channel partners are responsible for the requirements of this directive as the importer of record in most of the european countries in which we sell our products, changes in interpretation of the regulations may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements in the future to meet in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. our failure to comply with these and future environmental rules and regulations could result in reduced sales of our products, increased costs, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions. a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. sales to u.s. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to government organizations. sales to government organizations are subject to a number of risks. selling to government organizations can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense, with long sales cycles and without any assurance of winning a sale. government demand, sales and payment for our products and services may be negatively impacted by numerous factors and requirements unique to selling to government agencies, such as: public sector budgetary cycles; funding authorizations and requirements unique to government agencies, with funding or purchasing reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products; geopolitical matters; and rules and regulations applicable to certain government sales, including gsa regulations. the rules and regulations applicable to sales to government organizations may also negatively impact sales to other organizations. to date, we have had limited traction in sales to u.s. federal government agencies, and any future sales to government organizations is uncertain. government organizations may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. for example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such government organization, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such distributor. governments routinely investigate, review and audit government vendors' administrative and other processes, and any unfavorable investigation, audit or other review could result in the government's refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines, or civil or criminal liability if the investigation, audit or other review uncovers improper, illegal or otherwise concerning activities. any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way. finally, purchases by the u.s. government may require certain products to be manufactured in the united states and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the u.s. government. 24 table of contents false detection of vulnerabilities, viruses or security breaches or false identification of spam or spyware could adversely affect our business. our fortiguard security subscription services may falsely detect, report and act on viruses or other threats that do not actually exist. this risk is heightened by the inclusion of a heuristics feature in our products, which attempts to identify viruses and other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies that may indicate that a particular item is a threat. when our end-customers enable the heuristics feature in our products, the risk of falsely identifying viruses and other threats significantly increases. these false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. also, our fortiguard security subscription services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent anti-spam or spyware products. parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. in addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may reduce the adoption of our products. if our system restricts important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect end-customers' systems and cause material system failures. in addition, our threat researchers periodically identify vulnerabilities in various third-party products, and, if these identifications are perceived to be incorrect or are in fact incorrect, this could harm our business. any such false identification or perceived false identification of important files, applications or vulnerabilities could result in negative publicity, loss of end-customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem and costly litigation. if our internal network system or our website is compromised, public perception of our products and services will be harmed, we may become subject to liability, and our business, operating results and stock price may be adversely impacted. our success depends on the market's confidence in our ability to provide effective network security protection. despite our efforts and processes to prevent breaches of our internal network system and website, we are still vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service and other cyber-attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized access to our internal network system or our website. our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees to transfer funds or disclose information in order to gain access to our network and confidential information. we cannot guarantee that the measures we have taken to protect our network and website will provide absolute security. moreover, because we provide network security products, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers. although we have not yet experienced significant damages from unauthorized access by a third party of our internal network or website, an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our internal systems or website could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services and investor confidence in our company. any breach of our network system or website could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services to our end-customers, lead to interruptions or system slowdowns, cause loss of critical data or lead to the unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential, proprietary or sensitive information. we could also be subject to liability and litigation and reputational harm and our channel partners and end-customers may be harmed, lose confidence in us and decrease or cease using our products and services. any breach of our internal network system or our website could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. our ability to sell our products is dependent on the quality of our technical support services, and our failure to offer high quality technical support services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. once our products are deployed within our end-customers' networks, our end-customers depend on our technical support services, as well as the support of our channel partners and other third parties, to resolve any issues relating to our products. if we, our channel partners or other third parties do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. many large end-customers, and service provider or government organization end-customers, require higher levels of support than smaller end-customers because of their more complex deployments and more demanding environments and business models. if we, our channel partners or other third parties fail to meet the requirements of our larger end-customers, it may be more difficult to execute on our strategy to increase our penetration with large businesses, service providers and government organizations. as a result, our failure to maintain high quality support services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 table of contents we could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, where a number of our subsidiaries are organized. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates or higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or withholding taxes; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; transfer pricing adjustments; an increase in non-deductible expenses for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill; tax costs related to intercompany realignments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our provision for income taxes for the period in which the settlement takes place; a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings; changes in accounting principles; court decisions, tax rulings and interpretations of tax laws, and regulations by international, federal or local governmental authorities; or changes in tax laws and regulations. significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the financial accounting standards board standard. in addition, the standard applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which, if settled unfavorably, could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain foreign countries is subject to reduced tax rates. our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. in addition, we have open tax years that could be subject to the examination by the internal revenue service (the irs ) and other tax authorities. tax authorities in france are currently examining the inter-company relationship between fortinet, inc., fortinet france and fortinet singapore. in april 2017, we received a notice from the french tax authorities that an audit was officially opened for tax years from 2007 to 2015. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. 26 table of contents in december 2017, the u.s. federal government enacted the tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 tax act ). the 2017 tax act significantly changed the existing u.s. corporate income tax laws by, among other things, lowering the corporate tax rate, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a one-time deemed repatriation tax on cumulative undistributed foreign earnings, for which we have not previously recognized u.s. income taxes. given the timing, scope and magnitude of the changes enacted by the 2017 tax act, along with ongoing implementation efforts, guidance and other developments from u.s. regulatory and standard-setting bodies, the completion of the accounting for certain tax items included in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements that have been reported as provisional, or where no estimate of the impact was provided as a result of us not having the necessary information, may be subject to material change. any significant changes to our future effective tax rate, including final resolution of provisional amounts relating to effects of the 2017 tax act, may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. for example, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we provisionally recorded a $47.9 million expense on the remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to the reduction of the federal corporate income tax rate, and a $15.2 million expense for the one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation related to the 2017 tax act. we will continue to monitor and assess the impact of the 2017 tax act and the ongoing guidance and accounting interpretations issued in response to the 2017 tax act. although we currently do not have a valuation allowance, we may in the future be required to establish one. we will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. if the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits or effective tax rates in a given jurisdiction differs from our estimate, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, our actual tax rate may be subject to further uncertainty due to potential changes in u.s. and foreign tax rules. as a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. the taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. the organisation for economic co-operation and development (the oecd ) has been working on a base erosion and profit sharing project, commonly known as beps. as part of this project, the oecd has issued and continues to issue guidelines and proposals that change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. due to our extensive international business activities, any changes in the taxation of such activities could increase our tax obligations in many countries and may increase our worldwide effective tax rate. 27 table of contents our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. in order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property, such as patents. for any possible future acquisition, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product, technology or intellectual property and sales force into our existing business and operations. we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, intellectual property or products with our existing product lines, integrating reporting systems and procedures, and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. for example, we may experience difficulties integrating an acquired company's erp or crm systems, sales support and other processes and systems, with our current systems and processes. our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues, and we may not accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition. in addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may be dilutive to revenue growth and earnings and may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in impairment charges that could be substantial. we may have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any acquisition, each of which could affect our financial condition or the value of our capital stock and could result in dilution to our stockholders. acquisitions during a quarter may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations for that period or future periods compared to the results that we have previously forecasted or achieved. further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating acquired businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property could significantly divert management time and resources. our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. our products are very complex and, despite testing prior to their release, have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. product errors have affected the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our end-customers' willingness to buy products from us and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant end-customers, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. as a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. the occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we generally have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the united states or other countries, and in some circumstances we may be required to indemnify a customer in full, without a limitation on liability, for certain liabilities, including potential liabilities that are not contractually limited. the sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. we maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not cover such claim at all or may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us, and in some instances may subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. in addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management's time and other resources. 28 table of contents our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as civil unrest, labor disruption and terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, power outage, flood or other catastrophic event, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity, and our research and development and data center in burnaby, canada, from which we deliver customers our fortiguard security subscription updates, is subject to the risk of flooding and is also in a region known for seismic activity. in addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors, suppliers or logistics providers' ability to perform services, such as obtaining product components and manufacturing products, or assisting with shipments, on a timely basis, as well as our customers' ability to order from us and our employees' ability to perform their duties. in the event our or our service providers' information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in our missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. in addition, regional instability, civil unrest, labor disruptions, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers, or of the economy as a whole. given our typical concentration of sales at the end of each quarter, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. to the extent that any of the above results in security risks to our customers, delays or cancellations of customer orders or the delay of the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. risks related to our industry the network security market is rapidly evolving and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing end-customer needs, our competitive position and prospects will be harmed. the network security market is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. moreover, many of our end-customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly complex networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. in addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, while minimizing the impact on network performance. additionally, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new hardware architectures and asics that involve complex, expensive and time consuming research and development processes. for example, we enter into development agreements with third parties. if our contract development projects are not successfully completed, or are not completed in a timely fashion, our product development could be delayed and our business generally could suffer. costs for contract development can be substantial and our profitability may be harmed if we are unable to recover these costs. although the market expects rapid introduction of new products or product enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain and there can be long time periods between releases and availability of new products. we have in the past and may in the future experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and services and fail to meet previously announced timetables for such availability. if we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our end-customers by developing and releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and services or enhancements that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. moreover, business models based on software-as-a-service ( saas ) and infrastructure-as-a-service ( iaas ), both of which are hosted or cloud-based services, have become increasingly in-demand by our end-customers and adopted by other providers, including our competitors. while we have introduced additional cloud-based products and services and will continue to do so, most of our platform is currently deployed on premise, and therefore, if customers demand that our platform be provided through a saas or iaas business model, we would be required to make additional investments in our infrastructure and personnel to be able to more fully provide our platform through a saas or iaas model in order to maintain the competitiveness of our platform. such investments may involve expanding our data centers, servers and networks, and increasing our technical operations and engineering teams. these risks are compounded by the uncertainty concerning the future viability of saas and iaas business models and the future demand for such models by customers. additionally, if we are unable to meet the demand to provide our services through a saas or iaas model, we may lose customers to competitors. 29 table of contents our uniform resource locator ( url ) database for our web filtering service may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth of urls and may not categorize websites in accordance with our end-customers ' expectations. the success of our web filtering service depends on the breadth and accuracy of our url database. although our url database currently catalogs millions of unique urls, it contains only a portion of the urls for all of the websites that are available on the internet. in addition, the total number of urls and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth to continue in the future. accordingly, we must identify and categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate. our database and technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of websites, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the internet. further, the ongoing evolution of the internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our web filtering function. any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the internet could impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our web filtering service may not be successful in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our end-customers' expectations. we rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize websites and software applications in our proprietary databases. our end-customers may not agree with our determinations that particular urls should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. in addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place material that is objectionable or that presents a security risk in categories that are generally unrestricted by our customers' internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. conversely, we may miscategorize websites such that access is denied to websites containing information that is important or valuable to our customers. any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. any failure to effectively categorize and filter websites according to our end-customers' and channel partners' expectations could impair the growth of our business. if our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. we spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new products and enhanced versions of our existing products in order to incorporate additional features, improved functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers' rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. when we develop a new product or an enhanced version of an existing product, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing our new products or enhancements to the market; failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; failure of our sales force and partners to focus on selling new products; inability to interoperate effectively with the networks or applications of our prospective end-customers; inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; actual or perceived defects, vulnerabilities, errors or failures; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay it purchases; changes to the regulatory requirements around security; and 30 table of contents reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. demand for our products may be limited by market perception that individual products from one vendor that provide multiple layers of security protection in one product are inferior to point solution network security solutions from multiple vendors. sales of many of our products depend on increased demand for incorporating broad security functionality into one appliance. if the market for these products fails to grow as we anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. target customers may view all-in-one network security solutions as inferior to security solutions from multiple vendors because of, among other things, their perception that such products of ours provide security functions from only a single vendor and do not allow users to choose best-of-breed defenses from among the wide range of dedicated security applications available. target customers might also perceive that, by combining multiple security functions into a single platform, our solutions create a single point of failure in their networks, which means that an error, vulnerability or failure of our product may place the entire network at risk. in addition, the market perception that all-in-one solutions may be suitable only for small and medium-sized businesses because such solution lacks the performance capabilities and functionality of other solutions may harm our sales to large businesses, service provider and government organization end-customers. if the foregoing concerns and perceptions become prevalent, even if there is no factual basis for these concerns and perceptions, or if other issues arise with our market in general, demand for multi-security functionality products could be severely limited, which would limit our growth and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, a successful and publicized targeted attack against us, exposing a single point of failure, could significantly increase these concerns and perceptions and may harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in our market and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. the market for network security products is intensely competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. our competitors include companies such as check point, cisco, f5 networks, fireeye, forcepoint, imperva, juniper, mcafee, palo alto networks, proofpoint, sonicwall, sophos, symantec and trend micro. many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as: greater name recognition and longer operating histories; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers; access to larger customer bases; greater customer support resources; greater resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. 31 table of contents in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings, and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages customers from purchasing our products. these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus, and are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets. therefore, these competitors will not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of network security threat are often able to deliver these specialized network security products to the market more quickly than we can. some of our smaller competitors are using third-party chips designed to accelerate performance. conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. our competitors and potential competitors may also be able to develop products or services that are equal or superior to ours, achieve greater market acceptance of their products and services, and increase sales by utilizing different distribution channels than we do. our current and potential competitors may also offer point solutions, fabric and/or cloud security services that compete with some of the features present in our platform. they may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. in addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources, and new competitors may arise pursuant to acquisitions of network security companies or divisions. as a result of such acquisitions, competition in our market may continue to increase and our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily, or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. due to budget constraints or economic downturns, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing network security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with our solutions. these competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. if functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our appliances to their network, which would have an adverse effect on our business. large, well-established providers of networking equipment such as cisco, f5 networks and juniper offer, and may continue to introduce, network security features that compete with our products, either in standalone security products or as additional features in their network infrastructure products. the inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our security solutions in networking products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. furthermore, even if the functionality offered by network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor such as us. many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of networking products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from other vendors such as us. in addition, an organization's existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only network security products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. if organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 32 table of contents risks related to intellectual property our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our products without compensating us. we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or products. any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. patent applications in the united states are typically not published until at least 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. in addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the united states may bring into question the validity of certain software patents and may make it more difficult and costly to prosecute patent applications. as a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or effectively enforce our issued patents. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot guarantee that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. policing unauthorized use of our technology or products is difficult. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the united states. from time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and products protected other than by patent rights), we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. our products contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including the gnu public license, the gnu lesser public license, the bsd license, the apache license, the mit x license and the mozilla public license. from time to time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants' intellectual property rights. we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by u.s. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make our proprietary code generally available in source code form, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which requirements could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 33 table of contents claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other litigation matters could harm our business. patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network security industry. third parties are currently asserting, have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us. they have also asserted such claims against our end-customers or channel partners whom we may indemnify against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. in addition, litigation may involve patent holding companies, non-practicing entities or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable, and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense, and may ultimately not be successful. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we are subject to lawsuits claiming patent infringement. we are also subject to other litigation in addition to patent infringement claims, such as employment-related litigation and disputes, as well as general commercial litigation, and could become subject to other forms of litigation and disputes, including stockholder litigation. if we are unsuccessful in defending any such claims, our operating results and financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. for example, we may be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling certain of our products. litigation, with or without merit, could negatively impact our business, reputation and sales in a material fashion. we have several ongoing patent lawsuits, several non-practicing entity patent holding companies have sent us letters proposing that we license certain of their patents and organizations have sent letters demanding that we provide indemnification for patent claims. given this and the proliferation of lawsuits in our industry and other similar industries by both non-practicing entities and operating entities, and recent non-practicing entity and operating entity patent litigation against other companies in the security space, we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. the cost to defend such lawsuits and any adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on the availability of third-party licenses. many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. we also rely on technologies licensed from third parties in order to operate functions of our business. if any of these third parties allege that we have not properly paid for such licenses or that we have improperly used the technologies under such licenses, we may need to pay additional fees or obtain new licenses, and such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. in either case, or if we were required to redesign our internal operations to function with new technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. 34 table of contents risks related to ownership of our common stock as a public company, we are subject to compliance initiatives that will require substantial time from our management and result in significantly increased costs that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sarbanes-oxley ), dodd-frank and other rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq stock market impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. these requirements, as well as proposed corporate governance laws and regulations under consideration, may further increase our compliance costs. if compliance with these various legal and regulatory requirements diverts our management's attention from other business concerns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. sarbanes-oxley requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually, and of our disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. although our most recent assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that, as of december 31, 2017, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in 2018 or future periods. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices, and varying interpretations of existing or new accounting pronouncements, such as changes to standards related to revenue recognition, equity investment valuation (which became effective for us beginning on january 1, 2018) and accounting for leases (which will become effective for us on january 1, 2019), as well as the significant costs incurred that may be incurred to adopt and to comply with these new pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. if we do not ensure that our systems and processes are aligned with the new standards, we could encounter difficulties generating quarterly and annual financial statements in a timely manner, which would have an adverse effect on our business, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and compliance with internal control requirements. as a result of adopting and implementing the new revenue recognition standard, we will be required to change our accounting for commission expense. we will capitalize and amortize certain direct costs, such as commissions, over the expected period of benefit rather than expensing them as incurred. while the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard does not change the cash flows received from our contracts with customers, its adoption could have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. refer to note 1 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information on the new standard and its potential impact on us. the new revenue standard is principles based and interpretation of those principles may vary from company to company based on their unique circumstances. management will make judgments and assumptions based on our interpretation of the new standard. it is possible that interpretation, industry practice and guidance may evolve as we work toward implementing the new revenue recognition standard. if our circumstances change or if actual circumstances differ from our assumptions, our operating result may be adversely affected and could fall below our publicly announced guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock. further, the new equity investment valuation standard, which requires most equity investments to be measured at fair value (with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net income), may increase the volatility of our earnings. if securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. if we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this periodic report, news about us and our financial results, news about our competitors and their results, and other factors such as rumors or fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. for example, during 2017, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $30.12 to $45.09 per share. 35 table of contents furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. share repurchases under our share repurchase program could increase the volatility of the trading price of our common stock and could diminish our cash reserves. in 2017, our board of directors approved the increase in the aggregate authorized repurchase amount under our share repurchase program by $700.0 million , bringing the total authorization to $1.0 billion. share repurchases under our share repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock, increase stock price volatility and diminish our cash reserves. in addition, an announcement of the reduction, suspension or termination of our share repurchase program could result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. our corporate governance documents include provisions: providing for a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; providing that certain litigation matters may only be brought against us in state or federal courts in the state of delaware; controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. 36 table of contents however, these anti-takeover provisions will not have the effect of preventing activist stockholders from seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as nominating board candidates and requesting that we pursue strategic combinations or other transactions. these actions could disrupt our operations, be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and employees. in addition, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of activist stockholder actions could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, as well as other negative business consequences. actions of an activist stockholder may also cause fluctuations in our stock price based on speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect our business. further, we may incur significant expenses in retaining professionals to advise and assist us on activist stockholder matters, including legal, financial, communications advisors and solicitation experts, which may negatively impact our future financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate fluctuation risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and investments in a variety of securities, including corporate debt securities, money market funds, commercial paper, municipal bonds, u.s. government and agency securities, certificates of deposit and term deposits. the risk associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio. a 10% decrease in interest rates in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 would have resulted in an insignificant decrease in our interest income in each of these periods. 63 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency translation risk. however, a substantial portion of our operating expenses incurred outside the united states are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the canadian dollar ( cad ), the euro ( eur ) and the british pound ( gbp ). to help protect against significant fluctuations in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we engage in foreign currency risk management activities to minimize the impact of balance sheet items denominated in cad. we do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. all of the derivative instruments are with high quality financial institutions and we monitor the credit worthiness of these parties. these contracts typically have a maturity of one month. we record changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts related to balance sheet accounts as other expense in the consolidated statement of operations. we recognized an expense of $1.0 million in other income (expense) net, in 2017 due to foreign currency transaction gains. our use of forward exchange contracts is intended to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, are relatively short-term in nature and are focused on the cad, long-term material changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, such as the eur and gbp, could adversely impact our operating expenses in the future. we assessed the risk of loss in fair values from the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates. for foreign currency exchange rate risk, a 10% increase or decrease of foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a $5.5 million change in the value of our foreign currency cash balances as of december 31, 2017. inflation risk our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are not affected significantly by inflation because they are short-term. we believe the impact of inflation on replacement costs of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. the rate of inflation, however, affects our cost of revenue and expenses, such as those for employee compensation, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of products and services offered by us. 64 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. investors should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially, and investors may lose some or all of their investment. risks related to our business our operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control or may be difficult to predict, including: our ability to attract and retain new end-customers or sell additional products and services to our existing end-customers; the level of demand for our products and services, which may render forecasts inaccurate; the timing of channel partner and end-customer orders, and our reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of each quarter; the timing of shipments, which may depend on factors such as inventory levels, logistics, manufacturing or shipping delays, our ability to ship new products on schedule and our ability to accurately forecast inventory requirements; inventory management; the mix of products sold and the mix of revenue between products and services, as well as the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; the purchasing practices and budgeting cycles of our channel partners and end-customers, including the effect of the end of product refresh cycles; the effectiveness of our sales organization, generally or in a particular geographic region, the time it takes to hire sales personnel and the timing of hiring, and our ability to retain, sales personnel; sales execution risk related to effectively selling to all segments of the market, including enterprise and small- and medium-sized businesses and service providers, and to selling our broad security product and services portfolio; the seasonal buying patterns of our end-customers; the timing and level of our investments in sales and marketing, and the impact of such investments on our operating expenses, operating margin and the productivity and effectiveness of execution of our sales and marketing teams; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales; the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; changes in the requirements, market needs or buying practices and patterns of our distributors, resellers or end-customers; changes in the growth rate of the network security market; 9 table of contents the timing and success of new product and service introductions or enhancements by us or our competitors, or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors, partners or end-customers; the deferral of orders from distributors, resellers or end-customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; increases or decreases in our billings, revenue and expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or a strengthening of the u.s. dollar, as a significant portion of our expenses is incurred and paid in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and the impact such fluctuations may have on the actual prices that our partners and customers are willing to pay for our products and services; compliance with existing laws and regulations that are applicable to our ability to conduct business with the public sector; litigation, litigation fees and costs, settlements, judgments and other equitable and legal relief granted related to litigation; the impact of cloud-based platforms on our billings, revenues, operating margins and free cash flow; decisions by potential end-customers to purchase network security solutions from newer technology providers, from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; price competition and increased competitiveness in our market, including the competitive pressure caused by product refresh cycles; our ability to both increase revenues and manage and control operating expenses in order to improve our operating margins; changes in customer renewal rates or attached rates for our services; changes in the payment terms of services contracts or the contractual term of services contracts sold; changes in our estimated annual effective tax rates; changes in circumstances and challenges in business conditions, including decreased demand, which may negatively impact our channel partners' ability to sell the current inventory they hold and negatively impact their future purchases of products from us; increased demand for cloud-based services and the uncertainty associated with transitioning to providing such services; increased expenses, unforeseen liabilities or write-downs and any impact on results of operations from any acquisition consummated; our channel partners having insufficient financial resources to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions; disruptions in our channel or termination of our relationship with important channel partners, including as a result of consolidation among distributors and resellers of security solutions; insolvency, credit or other difficulties confronting our key suppliers and channel partners, which could affect their ability to purchase or pay for products and services and which could disrupt our supply or distribution chain; policy changes and uncertainty with respect to immigration laws, trade policy and tariffs, including increased tariffs applicable to countries where we manufacture our products, foreign imports and tax laws related to international commerce; 10 table of contents political, economic and social instability, including geo-political instability and uncertainty, such as the impact of the united kingdom's exit from the european union; general economic conditions, both in domestic and foreign markets; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies, such as changes in accounting for leases and stock-based compensation, as well as the significant costs that may be incurred to adopt and comply with these new pronouncements; possible impairments or acceleration of depreciation of our existing real estate due to our current real estate holdings and future development plans; and legislative or regulatory changes, such as with respect to privacy, information and cybersecurity, exports, the environment and applicable accounting standards. any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial and other operating results. this variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. if we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. in addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature over the near term. accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. in addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. weak global and regional economic conditions and spending environments, geopolitical instability and uncertainty, weak economic conditions in certain regions or a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macro-economic conditions could have adverse impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our channel partners, reduced unit sales and slower or declining growth. our billings, revenue, operating margin and free cash flow growth may slow or may not continue. we may experience slowing growth, or a decrease, in billings, revenue, operating margin and free cash flow for a number of reasons, including a slowdown in demand for our products or services, a shift in demand from products to services, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market or softness in demand in certain geographies or industry verticals, such as the service provider industry, changes in our strategic opportunities, execution risks and our failure for any reason to continue to capitalize on sales and growth opportunities due to other risks identified in the risk factors described in this periodic report. our expenses as a percentage of total revenue may be higher than expected if our revenue is lower than expected and, if our investments in sales and marketing and other functional areas do not result in expected billings and revenue growth, we may experience margin declines and may not be able to sustain profitability in future periods if we fail to increase billings, revenue or deferred revenue, do not appropriately manage our cost structure and free cash flow or encounter unanticipated liabilities. any failure by us to maintain profitability, maintain our margins and continue our billings, revenue and free cash flow growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. 11 table of contents we rely significantly on revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services, and revenue from these services may decline or fluctuate. because we recognize revenue from these services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales of fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue has historically accounted for a significant percentage of our total revenue. revenue from the sale of new, or from the renewal of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support service contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in purchases of fortigate appliances or our fabric products, changes in the sales mix between products and services, end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors, reductions in our customers' spending levels and the timing of revenue recognition with respect to these arrangements. if our sales of new, or renewals of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support service contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business could suffer. in addition, in the event significant customers require payment terms for fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services in arrears or for shorter periods of time than annually, such as monthly or quarterly, this may negatively impact our billings and revenue. furthermore, we recognize fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically from one to three years, and, to a lesser extent, five years. as a result, much of the fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts entered into during previous quarters or years. consequently, a decline in new or renewed fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales of new, or renewals of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services is not reflected in full in our statements of income until future periods. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal support services contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. we generate a majority of revenue from sales to distributors, resellers and end-customers outside of the united states, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. we market and sell our products throughout the world and have established sales offices in many parts of the world. our international sales have represented a majority of our total revenue in recent periods. therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. we are also subject to a number of risks typically associated with international sales and operations, including: economic or political instability in foreign markets; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and accounts receivable collection, including longer collection periods; longer sales processes for larger deals, particularly during the summer months; changes in regulatory requirements; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; costs of compliance with foreign policies, laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such policies, laws and regulations; protectionist policies and penalties, and local laws, requirements, policies and perceptions that may adversely impact a u.s.-headquartered business's sales in certain countries outside of the united states; costs of complying with, and the risks and costs of non-compliance with, u.s. or other foreign laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act 2010, the general data protection regulation (which became effective in may 2018), import and export control laws, tariffs and retaliatory measures, trade barriers and economic sanctions; 12 table of contents other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales or sales-related arrangements, such as sales side agreements to allow return rights, that could disrupt the sales team through terminations of employment or otherwise, and may adversely impact financial results as compared to those already reported or forecasted and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; our ability to effectively implement and maintain adequate internal controls to properly manage our international sales and operations; political unrest, changes and uncertainty associated with terrorism, hostilities, war or natural disasters; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; and changes in tax, tariff, employment and other laws. product and service sales and employee and contractor matters may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. further, we may be unable to keep up-to-date with changes in government requirements as they change over time. failure to comply with these regulations could result in adverse effects to our business. in many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in litigation, regulatory action, costs of investigation, delays in revenue recognition, delays in financial reporting, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may undertake corporate operating restructurings or transfers of assets that involve our group of foreign country subsidiaries through which we do business abroad, in order to maximize the operational and tax efficiency of our group structure. if ineffectual, such restructurings or transfers could increase our income tax liabilities, and in turn, increase our global effective tax rate. moreover, our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. however, the tax authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, which could impact our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and operating results. if we are not successful in continuing to execute our strategy to increase our sales to large and medium-sized end-customers, our results of operations may suffer. an important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of our products to large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations. while we have increased sales in recent periods to large and medium-sized businesses, our sales volume varies by quarter and there is risk as to our level of success selling to these target customers. such sales involve unique sales skillsets, processes and structures, are often more complex and feature a longer contract term and may be at higher discount levels. we also have experienced uneven traction selling to certain government organizations and service providers and mssps, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful selling to these customers. sales to these organizations involve risks that may not be present, or that are present to a lesser extent, with sales to smaller entities. these risks include: increased competition from competitors that traditionally target large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations and that may already have purchase commitments from those end-customers; 13 table of contents increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end-customers in negotiating contractual arrangements; unanticipated changes in the capital resources or purchasing behavior of large end-customers, including changes in the volume and frequency of their purchases and changes in the mix of products and services, willingness to change to cloud delivery model and related payment terms; more stringent support requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, more complex requirements and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end-customer that elects not to purchase our products and services; and longer ramp-up periods for enterprise sales personnel as compared to other sales personnel. large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and mssps and government organizations often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases longer than 12 months. although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with end-customers, along with our distributors and resellers, in connection with sales to large and medium-sized end-customers. we may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without being successful in producing any sales. in addition, purchases by large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. furthermore, service providers and mssps represent our largest industry vertical and consolidation or continued changes in buying behavior by larger customers within this industry could negatively impact our business. large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and mssps and government organizations typically have longer implementation cycles, require greater product functionality and scalability, expect a broader range of services, including design, implementation and post go-live services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. in addition, large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations may require that our products and services be sold differently from how we offer our products and services, which could negatively impact our operating results. our large business and service provider customers may also become more deliberate in their purchases as they plan their next-generation network security architecture, leading them to take more time in making purchasing decisions or to purchase based only on their immediate needs. all these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. in addition, if sales expected from a large and medium-sized end-customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. insufficient inventory may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. managing our inventory is complex. our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders or not place orders commensurate with our expectations if their inventory is too high, return products or take advantage of price protection (if any is available to the particular partner) or delay orders in anticipation of new products, and accurately forecasting inventory requirements and demand can be challenging. our channel partners also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-customer demand. furthermore, if the time required to manufacture or ship certain products increases for any reason, inventory shortfalls could result. management of our inventory is further complicated by the significant number of different products and models that we sell which may impact our billings, revenue, margins and free cash flow. mismanagement of our inventory, whether due to imprecise forecasting, employee errors or malfeasance, inaccurate information or otherwise, may adversely affect our results of operations. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology, product transitions, customer requirements or excess inventory levels. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. alternatively, insufficient inventory levels may lead to shortages that result in delayed revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-customers turn to competitors' products that are readily available. for example, we have in the past experienced inventory shortages and excesses due to the variance in demand for certain products from forecasted amounts. in addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our results of operations. our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage 14 table of contents inventory. if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our channel partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute on our business plan and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. the loss of services of members of senior management, particularly ken xie, our co-founder, chief executive officer and chairman or michael xie, our co-founder, president and chief technology officer, or of any of our senior sales leaders or functional area leaders, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. the loss of the services or the distraction of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, any failure to have in place and execute an effective succession plan for key executives or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering, sales and marketing, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we experience turnover in our management-level personnel. none of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially for qualified employees in network security and especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for highly skilled personnel, such as the san francisco bay area and vancouver, canada. we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. changes in immigration laws, including changes to the rules regarding h1-b visas, may also harm our ability to attract personnel from other countries. if we do not increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, we may have difficulty adding new end-customers or increasing sales to our existing end-customers and our business may be adversely affected. although we have a channel sales model, sales in our industry are complex and members of our sales organization often engage in direct interaction with our prospective end-customers, particularly for larger deals involving larger end-customers. therefore, we continue to be substantially dependent on our sales organization to obtain new end-customers and sell additional products and services to our existing end-customers. there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. our ability to grow our revenue depends, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth and on the effectiveness of those personnel in selling successfully in different contexts each of which has its own different complexities, approaches and competitive landscapes, such as managing and growing the channel business for sales to small businesses and more actively selling to the end-customer for sales to larger organizations. new hires require substantial training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. furthermore, hiring sales personnel in new countries requires additional setup and upfront costs that we may not recover if the sales personnel fail to achieve full productivity. if our sales employees do not become fully productive on the timelines that we have projected, our revenue will not increase at anticipated levels and our ability to achieve long-term projections may be negatively impacted. if we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new end-customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business, operating results and prospects will be adversely affected. 15 table of contents the sales prices of our products and services may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and operating margin, and which may adversely impact our financial results and the trading price of our common stock. the sales prices for our products and services may decline for a variety of reasons or our product mix may change, resulting in lower growth and margins based on a number of factors, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts or promotional programs we offer, a change in our mix of products and services and anticipation of the introduction of new products and services. competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products and services that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or services or may bundle them with other products or services. additionally, although we price our products and services worldwide in u.s. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions. furthermore, we anticipate that the sales prices and gross profits for our products or services will decrease over product life cycles. we cannot ensure that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product and service offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices, gross profits and operating margin at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our billings and revenue to fall below expected levels. as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas, we have historically received a substantial portion of each quarter's sales orders and generated a substantial portion of each quarter's billings and revenue during the last two weeks of the quarter. we implemented a cloud-based quoting tool to help provide our sales team with the ability to have faster quote generation, reduce quote errors and increase sales productivity. our ability to integrate the data from this tool into our order processing may cause order processing delays which could have an effect on our financial results. if expected orders at the end of any quarter are delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, our logistics partners' inability to ship products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the quarter, our failure to accurately forecast our inventory requirements and to appropriately manage inventory to meet demand, our inability to release new products on schedule, any failure of our systems related to order review and processing, any delays in shipments due to trade compliance requirements, labor disputes or logistics changes at shipping ports or otherwise, our billings and revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. unless we continue to develop better market awareness of our company and our products, and to improve lead generation and sales enablement, our revenue may not continue to grow. increased market awareness of our capabilities and products and increased lead generation are essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large businesses, service provider and government organization market. we have historically had relatively low spending on marketing activities. while we have increased our investments in sales and marketing, it is not clear that these investments will continue to result in increased revenue. if our investments in additional sales personnel or our marketing programs are not successful in continuing to create market awareness of our company and products or increasing lead generation, or if we experience turnover and disruption in our sales and marketing teams, we will not be able to achieve sustained growth, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. we rely on third-party channel partners for substantially all of our revenue. if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited, and if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results will be harmed. a significant portion of our sales is generated through a limited number of distributors, and substantially all of our revenue is from sales by our channel partners, including distributors and resellers. we depend on our channel partners to generate a significant portion of our sales opportunities and to manage our sales process. to the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or if we are unable to enter into arrangements with and retain a sufficient number of high-quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, we are unable to keep them motivated to sell our products, or our channel partners shift focus to other vendors and/or our competitors, our ability to sell our products and operating results will be harmed. the termination of our relationship with any significant channel partner may adversely impact our sales and operating results. 16 table of contents we provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them in selling our products and incentivize them to sell our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. in addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services and may purchase more inventory than they can sell. our channel partners generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions. in addition, if our channel partners' financial condition or operations weaken it could negatively impact their ability to sell our product and services. our channel partners may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products, or may decide to cease selling our products and services altogether in favor of a competitor's products and services. they may also have incentives to promote our competitors' products to the detriment of our own, or they may cease selling our products altogether. we cannot ensure that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement partners or that existing channel partners will continue to perform. the loss of one or more of our significant channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter through them could harm our operating results. in addition, we may be impacted by consolidation of our existing channel partners. in such instances, we may experience changes to our overall business and operational relationships due to dealing with a larger combined entity, and our ability to maintain such relationships on favorable contractual terms may be more limited. we may also become increasingly dependent on a more limited number of channel partners, as consolidation increases the relative proportion of our business for which each channel partner is responsible, which may magnify the risks described in the preceding paragraphs. in july 2017, exclusive, which distributes our solutions to a large group of resellers and end-customers, acquired fine tec u.s. since the acquisition of fine tec u.s., exclusive's business with us has increased and may continue to increase in the future. exclusive accounted for 38% and 35% of our total net accounts receivable as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017. during 2016, 2017 and 2018, exclusive accounted for 20% and 25% and 30% of our total revenue, respectively. in addition, any new sales channel partner will require extensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end-customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. we depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if we fail to optimize our channel partner model or fail to manage existing sales channels, our business will be seriously harmed. actual, possible or perceived defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, the failure of our products or services to detect or prevent a security breach or the misuse of our products could harm our reputation and divert resources. because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our customers. defects or vulnerabilities may impede or block network traffic, cause our products or services to be vulnerable to electronic break-ins or cause them to fail to help secure networks. we are also susceptible to errors, defects, vulnerabilities or attacks that may arise at, or be inserted into our products in, different stages in our supply chain, or manufacturing processes, and which are out of our control. attacks may target specific unidentified or unresolved vulnerabilities that exist or arrive only in the supply chain, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. different customers deploy and use our products in different ways, and certain deployments and usages may subject our products to adverse conditions that may negatively impact the effectiveness and useful lifetime of our products. our networks and products, including cloud-based technology, could be targeted by attacks specifically designed to disrupt our business and harm our reputation. we cannot ensure that our products will prevent all security threats. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. in addition, defects or errors in our fortiguard security subscription or forticare updates or our fortigate appliances and operating systems could result in a failure of our fortiguard security subscription services to effectively update end-customers' fortigate appliances and cloud-based products and thereby leave customers vulnerable to attacks. furthermore, our solutions may also fail to detect or prevent viruses, worms or similar threats due to a number of reasons such as the evolving nature of such threats and the continual emergence of new threats that we may fail to add to our fortiguard databases in time to protect our end-customers' networks. our fortiguard or forticare data centers and networks may also experience technical failures and downtime, and may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or fail to meet the increased requirements of our customer base. any such technical failure, downtime or failures in general may temporarily or permanently expose our end-customers' networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. an actual, possible or perceived security breach or infection of the network of one of our end-customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services to prevent the security breach, could adversely affect 17 table of contents the market's perception of our security products and services and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. we may not be able to correct any security flaws or vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. our products may also be misused by end-customers or third parties who obtain access to our products. for example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the internet. such use of our products for censorship could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, even if we take reasonable measures to prevent any improper shipment of our products or if our products are provided by an unauthorized third party. any actual, possible or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, or misuse of our products, could result in: the expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; the loss of existing or potential end-customers or channel partners; delayed or lost revenue; delay or failure to attain market acceptance; negative publicity and harm to our reputation; and litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, including through the expansion of our real estate facilities, or are unable to improve our systems, processes and controls, our operating results will be negatively affected. we rely heavily on information technology to help manage critical functions such as order configuration, pricing and quoting, revenue recognition, financial forecasts, inventory and supply chain management and trade compliance reviews. in addition, we have been slow to adopt and implement certain automated functions, which could have a negative impact on our business. for example, a large part of our order processing relies on manual data entry of customer purchase orders received through email and, to a lesser extent, through electronic data interchange from our customers. combined with the fact that we may receive a large amount of our orders in the last few weeks of any given quarter, an interruption in our email service or other systems could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased billings and revenue for that quarter. to manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial, operating, security and administrative systems and controls, and our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and processes, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. we may not be able to successfully implement requisite improvements to these systems, controls and processes, such as system capacity, access, security and change management controls, in a timely or efficient manner. our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, whether as a result of the significant growth of our business or otherwise, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. moreover, the failure of our systems and processes could undermine our ability to provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results and could impact the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our systems, processes and controls may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions, malfeasance or fraud, such as corruption and improper side agreements that may impact revenue recognition or result in financial liability. our productivity and the quality of our products and services may also be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. failure to ensure appropriate systems, processes and controls and to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our reputation and results of operations. we have expanded our office real estate holdings to meet our projected growing need for office space. we purchased office buildings in ottawa and burnaby, canada in 2017, and we have started construction on a second building adjacent to our sunnyvale headquarters as we expand our campus in sunnyvale, california. these plans will require significant capital expenditure over the next several years and involve certain risks, including impairment charges and acceleration of depreciation, changes in future business strategy that may decrease the need for expansion (such as a decrease in headcount) and, risks related to construction. future changes in growth or fluctuations in cash flow may also negatively impact our ability 18 table of contents to pay for these projects or free cash flow. additionally, inaccuracies in our projected capital expenditures could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. we may experience difficulties maintaining and expanding our erp and crm systems. the maintenance of our erp and crm systems has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant financial and human resources. in addition, we may choose to upgrade or expand the functionality of our erp and crm systems, leading to additional costs. we may also discover deficiencies in our design or maintenance of the erp or crm systems that could adversely affect our ability to forecast orders, process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, accurately maintain books and records, provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results, or otherwise operate our business. additionally, if the system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected or our ability to assess it adequately could be delayed. further, we recently implemented new systems to comply with the new revenue recognition standard and may further expand the scope of our erp and crm systems. our operating results may be adversely affected if these upgrades or expansions are delayed or if the systems do not function as intended or are not sufficient to meet our operating requirements. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. additionally, in connection with adopting and implementing the new revenue accounting standard, management will continue to make judgments and assumptions based on our interpretation of the new standard. the new revenue standard is principles based and interpretation of those principles may vary from company to company based on their unique circumstances. it is possible that interpretation, industry practice and guidance may evolve. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, deferred contract costs and commission expense, valuation of inventory, accounting for business combination, contingent liabilities and accounting for income taxes. for example, a change in our sales compensation plan may materially impact our accounting for deferred contract costs, which would impact our commission expense and therefore our future operating results. we offer retroactive price protection to certain of our major distributors, and if we fail to balance their inventory with end-customer demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we provide certain of our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. if we reduce the list price of our products, certain distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the levels of our major distributors' inventories. if future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 19 table of contents because we depend on several third-party manufacturers to build our products, we are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers, and third-party manufacturing cost increases could result in lower gross margins and free cash flow. we outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to contract manufacturing partners and original design manufacturing partners including manufacturers with facilities located in taiwan, china and other countries outside the united states such as micro-star, wistron, senao, adlink and ibase. our reliance on our third-party manufacturers in asia and elsewhere reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, costs, supply and timing and possible tariffs. any manufacturing disruption by our third-party manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, increased manufacturing lead-times, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our business would be seriously harmed. these manufacturers fulfill our supply requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders. we have no long-term contracts or arrangements with our third-party manufacturers that guarantee capacity, the continuation of particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for manufacturing services could be increased on short notice. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers would be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs, which could adversely affect our gross margins. our individual product lines are generally manufactured by only one manufacturing partner. any production or shipping interruptions for any reason, such as a natural disaster, epidemic, capacity shortages, quality problems or strike or other labor disruption at one of our manufacturing partners or locations or at shipping ports or locations, would severely affect sales of our product lines manufactured by that manufacturing partner. furthermore, manufacturing cost increases for any reason could result in lower gross margins. our proprietary spu, which is the key to the performance of our appliances, is built by contract manufacturers including faraday, megachips corporation and renesas. these contract manufacturers use foundries operated by umc, tsmc or renesas on a purchase-order basis, and these foundries do not guarantee their capacity and could delay orders or increase their pricing. accordingly, the foundries are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and due to the long lead time that a new foundry would require, we could suffer temporary inventory shortages of our spu as well as increased costs. in addition to our proprietary spu, we also purchase off-the-shelf asics or integrated circuits from vendors for which we have experienced, and may continue to experience, long lead times. our suppliers may also prioritize orders by other companies that order higher volumes or more profitable products. if any of these manufacturers materially delays its supply of asics or specific product models to us, or requires us to find an alternate supplier and we are not able to do so on a timely and reasonable basis, or if these foundries materially increase their prices for fabrication of our asics, our business would be harmed. in addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries limits our control over environmental regulatory requirements such as the hazardous substance content of our products and therefore our ability to ensure compliance with the restriction of hazardous substances directive (the eu rohs ) adopted in the european union (the eu ) and other similar laws. it also exposes us to the risk that certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, that are contained in our products have originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. as a result of the passage of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( dodd-frank ), the sec adopted disclosure requirements for public companies whose products contain conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of such products. under these rules, we are required to obtain sourcing data from suppliers, perform supply chain due diligence, and file annually with the sec a specialized disclosure report on form sd covering the prior calendar year. we have incurred and expect to incur additional costs to comply with the rules, including costs related to efforts to determine the origin, source and chain of custody of the conflict minerals used in our products and the adoption of conflict minerals-related governance policies, processes and controls. moreover, the implementation of these compliance measures could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products to the extent that there may be only a limited number of suppliers that are able to meet our sourcing requirements, which would make it more difficult to obtain such materials in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to not purchase our products, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. 20 table of contents because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, we are susceptible to supply shortages, long lead times for components, and supply changes, each of which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers, result in inventory shortage, cause loss of sales and customers or increase component costs resulting in lower gross margins and free cash flow. we and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key parts and components used in the manufacture of our products from limited sources of supply. we are therefore subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times in the supply of these components and the risk that component suppliers discontinue or modify components used in our products. we have in the past experienced, and are currently experiencing, shortages and long lead times for certain components. certain of our limited source components for particular appliances and suppliers of those components include: specific types of cpus from intel, network chips from broadcom, marvell and intel, and memory devices from intel, adata, ocz, samsung and western digital. we also may face shortages in the supply of the capacitors and resistors that are used in the manufacturing of our products. the introduction by component suppliers of new versions of their products, particularly if not anticipated by us or our contract manufacturers, could require us to expend significant resources to incorporate these new components into our products. in addition, if these suppliers were to discontinue production of a necessary part or component, we would be required to expend significant resources and time in locating and integrating replacement parts or components from another vendor. qualifying additional suppliers for limited source parts or components can be time-consuming and expensive. our manufacturing partners have experienced long lead times for the purchase of components incorporated into our products. lead times for components may be adversely impacted by factors outside of our control, such as natural disasters and other factors. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts or components when required; financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers; infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; price increases; failure of a component to meet environmental or other regulatory requirements; failure to meet delivery obligations in a timely fashion; and failure in component quality. the occurrence of any of these events would be disruptive to us and could seriously harm our business. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our distributors, resellers and end-customers. this could harm our relationships with our channel partners and end-customers and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, increased component costs could result in lower gross margins. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating expenses are incurred outside the united states. these expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the euro and canadian dollar and, to a lesser extent, the british pound. additionally, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the canadian dollar may negatively impact our development plans in burnaby, canada. while we are not currently engaged in material hedging activities, we have been hedging currency exposures relating to certain balance sheet accounts through the use of forward exchange contracts. if we stop hedging against any of these risks or if our attempts to hedge against these currency exposures are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore, while substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk, it does not serve as a hedge to our foreign currency-denominated operating expenses. in addition, a strengthening of the u.s. dollar may increase the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the united states, which may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business could subject us to fines and penalties and could also cause us to lose end-customers in the public sector or negatively impact our ability to contract with the public sector. our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, regional, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, product labeling, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, data privacy laws, import and export controls, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations. in certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than in the united states. noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages and civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. if any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. in addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management's attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. for example, with respect to data privacy and protection, the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018 and superseded current eu data protection regulations, imposes stringent data handling requirements on companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the eu. non-compliance with the gdpr could result in significant penalties, including data protection audits and heavy fines. compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, the gdpr may limit our ability to operate or expand our business in europe and could adversely impact our operating results, as could delays or shortcomings in the implementation of our gdpr compliance program. additionally, we may be subject to other legal regimes throughout the world governing data handling, protection and privacy. for example, in june 2018, california passed the california consumer privacy act (the ccpa ), which provides new data privacy rights for consumers and new operational requirements for companies and will become effective in 2020. fines for noncompliance may be up to $7,500 per violation. the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the gdpr and ccpa may limit the use and adoption of our products and services and could have an adverse impact on our business. selling our solutions to the u.s. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, other penalties and damages, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. as an example, the u.s. department of justice (the doj ), on its own behalf or on behalf of the general services administration (the gsa ), as well as individuals, has in the past pursued claims against, reached financial settlements with or otherwise obtained damages from companies that sell electronic equipment and from it vendors under the false claims act and other statutes related to pricing, discount practices and compliance with laws related to sales to the federal government, such as the trade agreements act. the doj continues to actively pursue such claims. violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting. any of these outcomes could have an adverse effect on our revenue, operating results, financial condition and prospects. see part i, item 3 of this annual report on form 10-k for more information on our legal proceedings. these laws and regulations impose added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements, including non-compliance in the past, could lead to claims for damages from our channel partners, penalties, termination of contracts, loss of exclusive rights in our intellectual property and temporary suspension or permanent debarment from government contracting. any such damages, penalties, disruptions or limitations in our ability to do business with the public sector could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. global economic uncertainty and weakening product demand caused by political instability and conflict could adversely affect our business and financial performance. economic uncertainty in various global markets caused by political instability and conflict has resulted, and may continue to result, in weakened demand for our products and services and difficulty for us in forecasting our financial results and managing inventory levels. political developments impacting government spending and international trade, including government shutdowns in the united states, continued uncertainty surrounding the united kingdom's departure from the eu and trade disputes and tariffs, may negatively impact markets and cause weaker macroeconomic conditions. the effects of these events may continue due to potential additional u.s. government shutdowns, instability in the united kingdom and the eu as the terms of brexit remain under negotiation and the prolonging of the united states' trade disputes with china and other countries. the continuing effect of any or all of these events could adversely impact demand for our products, harm our operations and weaken our financial results. 22 table of contents we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or restrictions on sales, and could impair our ability to compete in international markets. because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, certain of our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the united states only with the required export license or through an export license exception, and may be prohibited altogether from export to certain countries. if we were to fail to comply with u.s. export laws, u.s. customs regulations and import regulations, u.s. economic sanctions and other countries' import and export laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. in addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits (e.g. for stocking orders placed by our partners), we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties and we may not be able to provide support related to appliances shipped pursuant to such orders. obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. furthermore, u.s. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to u.s. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to u.s. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners, despite such precautions. any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations and penalties and reputational harm. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. efforts to withdraw from or materially modify international trade agreements, to change tax provisions related to global manufacturing and sales or to impose new tariffs, economic sanctions or related legislation, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our business benefits directly and indirectly from free trade agreements, and we also rely on various u.s. corporate tax provisions related to international commerce, as we develop, market and sell our products and services globally. efforts to withdraw from or materially modify international trade agreements, or to change corporate tax policy related to international commerce, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as could the continuing uncertainty regarding whether such actions will be taken. moreover, efforts to implement changes related to export or import regulations (including the imposition of new border taxes or tariffs on foreign imports), trade barriers, economic sanctions and other related policies could harm our results of operations. for example, in march 2018, the current administration imposed a 25% tariff on steel imports and a 10% tariff on aluminum imports and announced additional tariffs on goods imported from china specifically, as well as certain other countries. subsequently, in september 2018, additional tariffs were imposed by the united states on some goods imported from china, including certain electronics and it products. other countries have in turn imposed retaliatory tariffs on goods exported from the united states and both the united states and foreign countries have threatened to alter or leave current trade agreements. while we do not currently expect these tariffs to have a significant effect on our raw material and product import costs, if the united states expands increased tariffs, or retaliatory trade measures are taken by china or other countries in response to the tariffs, the cost of our products could increase, our operations could be disrupted or we could be required to raise our prices, which may result in the loss of customers and harm to our reputation and operating performance. any modification in these areas, any shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or any change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential end-customers with international operations and could result in increased costs. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 table of contents if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products, laws relating to our real property and future expansion plans and laws concerning the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include the eu rohs and the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (the weee directive ), as well as the implementing legislation of the eu member states. similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in china, south korea, norway and japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the united states, and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. the eu rohs and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban the use of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury, cadmium and certain plastic additives in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. we have incurred costs to comply with these laws, including research and development costs, costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components and costs associated with writing off noncompliant inventory. we expect to continue to incur costs related to environmental laws and regulations in the future. with respect to the eu rohs, we and our competitors rely on exemptions for lead and other substances in network infrastructure equipment. it is possible this exemption will be revoked in the future. additionally, although the eu rohs exemptions have been extended, it is possible that some of these exemptions may expire in the future without being extended. if this exemption is revoked or expires without extension, if there are other changes to these laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. the eu has also adopted the weee directive, which requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. although currently our eu international channel partners are responsible for the requirements of this directive as the importer of record in most of the european countries in which we sell our products, changes in interpretation of the regulations may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements in the future to meet in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. our failure to comply with these and future environmental rules and regulations could result in reduced sales of our products, increased costs, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions. a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. sales to u.s. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to government organizations. sales to government organizations are subject to a number of risks. selling to government organizations can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense, with long sales cycles and without any assurance of winning a sale. government demand, sales and payment for our products and services may be negatively impacted by numerous factors and requirements unique to selling to government agencies, such as: public sector budgetary cycles; funding authorizations and requirements unique to government agencies, with funding or purchasing reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products; geopolitical matters, including tariff and trade disputes, brexit and government shutdowns; and rules and regulations applicable to certain government sales, including gsa regulations. the rules and regulations applicable to sales to government organizations may also negatively impact sales to other organizations. to date, we have had limited traction in sales to u.s. federal government agencies, and any future sales to government organizations is uncertain. government organizations may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. for example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such government organization, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect 24 table of contents our future sales to such distributor. governments routinely investigate, review and audit government vendors' administrative and other processes, and any unfavorable investigation, audit or other review could result in the government's refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines, or civil or criminal liability if the investigation, audit or other review uncovers improper, illegal or otherwise concerning activities. any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way. finally, purchases by the u.s. government may require certain products to be manufactured in the united states and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the u.s. government. false detection of vulnerabilities, viruses or security breaches or false identification of spam or spyware could adversely affect our business. our fortiguard security subscription services may falsely detect, report and act on viruses or other threats that do not actually exist. this risk is heightened by the inclusion of a heuristics feature in our products, which attempts to identify viruses and other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies that may indicate that a particular item is a threat. when our end-customers enable the heuristics feature in our products, the risk of falsely identifying viruses and other threats significantly increases. these false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. also, our fortiguard security subscription services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent anti-spam or spyware products. parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. in addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may reduce the adoption of our products. if our system restricts important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect end-customers' systems and cause material system failures. in addition, our threat researchers periodically identify vulnerabilities in various third-party products, and, if these identifications are perceived to be incorrect or are in fact incorrect, this could harm our business. any such false identification or perceived false identification of important files, applications or vulnerabilities could result in negative publicity, loss of end-customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem and costly litigation. if our internal enterprise it networks, on which we conduct internal business and interface externally, or our operational networks, through which we connect to customer systems and provide services, are compromised, public perception of our products and services will be harmed, we may become subject to liability, and our business, operating results and stock price may be adversely impacted. our success depends on the market's confidence in our ability to provide effective network security protection. despite our efforts and processes to prevent breaches of our internal network system and website, we are still vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service and other cyber-attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized access to our internal network system or our website. our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, which breaches may be more difficult to detect than outsider threats, and the existing programs and trainings we have in place to prevent such insider threats may not be effective or sufficient. third parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce our employees to transfer funds or disclose information in order to gain access to our network and confidential information. we cannot guarantee that the measures we have taken to protect our network and website will provide absolute security. moreover, because we provide network security products, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers. hackers and malicious parties may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products and customers or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, or attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, customers or others to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or unwittingly provide access to our internal network system or data. although we have not yet experienced significant damages from unauthorized access by a third party of our internal network or website, an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our internal systems or website could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services and investor confidence in our company. any breach of our network system or website could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services to our end-customers, lead to interruptions or system slowdowns, cause loss of critical data or lead to the unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential, proprietary or sensitive information. we could also be subject to liability and litigation and reputational harm and our channel partners and end-customers may be harmed, lose confidence in us and decrease or cease using our products and services. any breach of our internal network system or our website could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. 25 table of contents our ability to sell our products is dependent on the quality of our technical support services, and our failure to offer high quality technical support services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. once our products are deployed within our end-customers' networks, our end-customers depend on our technical support services, as well as the support of our channel partners and other third parties, to resolve any issues relating to our products. if we, our channel partners or other third parties do not effectively assist our customers in planning, deploying and operational proficiency for our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. many large end-customers, and service provider or government organization end-customers, require higher levels of support than smaller end-customers because of their more complex deployments and more demanding environments and business models. if we, our channel partners or other third parties fail to meet the requirements of our larger end-customers, it may be more difficult to execute on our strategy to increase our penetration with large businesses, service providers and government organizations. as a result, our failure to maintain high quality support services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, where a number of our subsidiaries are organized. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control. these include: the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or withholding taxes; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; transfer pricing adjustments; an increase in non-deductible expenses for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense; tax costs related to intercompany realignments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our provision for income taxes for the period in which the settlement takes place; and changes in accounting principles, court decisions, tax rulings, and interpretations of or changes to tax laws, and regulations by international, federal or local governmental authorities. we have open tax years that could be subject to the examination by the internal revenue service (the irs ) and other tax authorities. we currently have ongoing tax audits in the united kingdom, israel, india and italy. the focus of all of these audits is the allocation of profit between our legal entities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. in december 2017, the u.s. federal government enacted the tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 tax act ). the 2017 tax act reduced the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and created a territorial tax system with a one-time mandatory tax on foreign earnings of u.s. subsidiaries not previously subject to u.s. income tax. in december 2017, the securities and exchange commission (the sec ) staff issued staff accounting bulletin no. 118, income tax accounting implications of the tax cuts and jobs act ( sab 118 ), which allowed us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. as a result, we previously provided a provisional estimate of the effect of the 2017 tax act in our financial statements. in the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed our analysis to determine the effect of the 2017 tax act within the measurement period under the sec guidance. we expect further guidance may be forthcoming from the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) and the sec, as well as regulations, interpretations and rulings from federal and state tax agencies, which could result in additional impacts. we will continue to monitor and assess the impact of the 2017 tax act and the ongoing guidance and accounting interpretations issued in response to the 2017 tax act. 26 table of contents the ninth circuit court of appeals is expected to issue a decision in altera corp. v. commissioner regarding the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in a cost sharing arrangement, which could have a material effect on our tax obligations and effective tax rate for the quarter in which the decision is issued. we may undertake corporate operating restructurings or transfers of assets that involve our group of foreign country subsidiaries through which we do business abroad, in order to maximize the operational and tax efficiency of our group structure. if ineffectual, such restructurings or transfers could increase our income tax liabilities, and in turn, increase our global effective tax rate. moreover, our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. however, the tax authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, which could impact our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and operating results. significant judgment is required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. if the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits or effective tax rates in a given jurisdiction differs from our estimate, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, our actual tax rate may be subject to further uncertainty due to potential changes in u.s. and foreign tax rules. as a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. the taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. consequently, tax authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. the organisation for economic co-operation and development (the oecd ), an international association comprised of 36 countries, including the united states, has issued and continues to issue guidelines and proposals that change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. due to our extensive international business activities, any changes in the taxation of such activities could increase our tax obligations in many countries and may increase our worldwide effective tax rate. 27 table of contents our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. in order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property, such as patents. for example, we closed our acquisitions of bradford networks, inc. ( bradford ) and zonefox limited ( zonefox ) in the second quarter of 2018 and the fourth quarter of 2018, respectively. for any past acquisition or possible future acquisition, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product, technology or intellectual property and sales force into our existing business and operations. we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, intellectual property or products with our existing product lines, integrating reporting systems and procedures, and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. for example, we may experience difficulties integrating an acquired company's erp or crm systems, sales support and other processes and systems, with our current systems and processes. our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues, and we may not accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition. in addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may be dilutive to revenue growth and earnings and may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in impairment charges that could be substantial. we may have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any acquisition, each of which could affect our financial condition or the value of our capital stock and could result in dilution to our stockholders. acquisitions during a quarter may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations for that period or future periods compared to the results that we have previously forecasted or achieved. further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating acquired businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property could significantly divert management time and resources. our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. our products are very complex and, despite testing prior to their release, have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. product errors have affected the performance of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our end-customers' willingness to buy products from us and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant end-customers, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. as a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. the occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we generally have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the united states or other countries, and in some circumstances we may be required to indemnify a customer in full, without a limitation on liability, for certain liabilities, including potential liabilities that are not contractually limited. the sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. we maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not cover such claim at all or may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us, and in some instances may subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. in addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management's time and other resources. 28 table of contents our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as civil unrest, labor disruption and terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, power outage, flood or other catastrophic event, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity, and our research and development and data center in burnaby, canada, from which we deliver to customers our fortiguard security subscription updates, is subject to the risk of flooding and is also in a region known for seismic activity. any earthquake in the bay area or burnaby, or flooding in burnaby could materially negatively impact our ability to provide products and services, such as forticare support and fortiguard subscription services and could otherwise materially negatively impact our business. in addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors, suppliers or logistics providers' ability to perform services, such as obtaining product components and manufacturing products, or assisting with shipments, on a timely basis, as well as our customers' ability to order from us and our employees' ability to perform their duties. in the event our or our service providers' information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in our missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. in addition, regional instability, civil unrest, labor disruptions, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers, or of the economy as a whole. given our typical concentration of sales at the end of each quarter, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. to the extent that any of the above results in security risks to our customers, delays or cancellations of customer orders, the delay of the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products or interruption or downtime of our services, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. risks related to our industry the network security market is rapidly evolving and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing end-customer needs, our competitive position and prospects will be harmed. the network security market is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. moreover, many of our end-customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly complex networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. in addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, while minimizing the impact on network performance. additionally, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new hardware architectures and asics that involve complex, expensive and time consuming research and development processes. for example, we enter into development agreements with third parties. if our contract development projects are not successfully completed, or are not completed in a timely fashion, our product development could be delayed and our business generally could suffer. costs for contract development can be substantial and our profitability may be harmed if we are unable to recover these costs. although the market expects rapid introduction of new products or product enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain and there can be long time periods between releases and availability of new products. we have in the past and may in the future experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and services and fail to meet previously announced timetables for such availability. if we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our end-customers by developing and releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and services or enhancements that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. moreover, business models based on software-as-a-service ( saas ), either hosted or cloud-based services, have become increasingly in-demand by our end-customers and adopted by other providers, including our competitors. while we have introduced additional cloud-based products and services and will continue to do so, most of our platform is currently deployed on premise, and therefore, if customers demand that our platform be provided through a saas business model, we would be required to make additional investments in our infrastructure and personnel to be able to more fully provide our platform through a saas model in order to maintain the competitiveness of our platform. such investments may involve expanding our data centers, servers and networks, and increasing our technical operations and engineering teams. these risks are compounded by the uncertainty concerning the future viability of saas business models and the future demand for such models by customers. additionally, if we are unable to meet the demand to provide our services through a saas model, we may lose customers to competitors. 29 table of contents our uniform resource locator ( url ) database for our web filtering service may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth of urls and may not categorize websites in accordance with our end-customers ' expectations. the success of our web filtering service depends on the breadth and accuracy of our url database. although our url database currently catalogs millions of unique urls, it contains only a portion of the urls for all of the websites that are available on the internet. in addition, the total number of urls and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth to continue in the future. accordingly, we must identify and categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate. our database and technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of websites, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the internet. further, the ongoing evolution of the internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our web filtering function. any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the internet could impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our web filtering service may not be successful in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our end-customers' expectations. we rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize websites and software applications in our proprietary databases. our end-customers may not agree with our determinations that particular urls should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. in addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place material that is objectionable or that presents a security risk in categories that are generally unrestricted by our customers' internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. conversely, we may miscategorize websites such that access is denied to websites containing information that is important or valuable to our customers. any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. any failure to effectively categorize and filter websites according to our end-customers' and channel partners' expectations could impair the growth of our business. if our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. we spend substantial amounts of time and money to acquire and develop internally new products and enhanced versions of our existing products in order to incorporate additional features, improved functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers' rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. when we develop a new product or an enhanced version of an existing product, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing our new products or enhancements to the market; failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; failure to have the appropriate research and development expertise and focus to make our top strategic fabric products successful; failure of our sales force and partners to focus on selling new products; inability to interoperate effectively with the networks or applications of our prospective end-customers; inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; actual or perceived defects, vulnerabilities, errors or failures; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; 30 table of contents introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay it purchases; changes to the regulatory requirements around security; and reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. demand for our products may be limited by market perception that individual products from one vendor that provide multiple layers of security protection in one product are inferior to point solution network security solutions from multiple vendors. sales of many of our products depend on increased demand for incorporating broad security functionality into one appliance. if the market for these products fails to grow as we anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. target customers may view all-in-one network security solutions as inferior to security solutions from multiple vendors because of, among other things, their perception that such products of ours provide security functions from only a single vendor and do not allow users to choose best-of-breed defenses from among the wide range of dedicated security applications available. target customers might also perceive that, by combining multiple security functions into a single platform, our solutions create a single point of failure in their networks, which means that an error, vulnerability or failure of our product may place the entire network at risk. in addition, the market perception that all-in-one solutions may be suitable only for small and medium-sized businesses because such solution lacks the performance capabilities and functionality of other solutions may harm our sales to large businesses, service provider and government organization end-customers. if the foregoing concerns and perceptions become prevalent, even if there is no factual basis for these concerns and perceptions, or if other issues arise with our market in general, demand for multi-security functionality products could be severely limited, which would limit our growth and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, a successful and publicized targeted attack against us, exposing a single point of failure, could significantly increase these concerns and perceptions and may harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in our market and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. the market for network security products is intensely competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. our competitors include companies such as check point, cisco, f5 networks, fireeye, forcepoint, imperva, juniper, mcafee, palo alto networks, proofpoint, sonicwall, sophos and trend micro. many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as: greater name recognition and longer operating histories; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers; access to larger customer bases; greater customer support resources; greater resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. 31 table of contents in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings, and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages customers from purchasing our products. these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus, and are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets. therefore, these competitors will not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of network security threat are often able to deliver these specialized network security products to the market more quickly than we can. some of our smaller competitors are using third-party chips designed to accelerate performance. conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. our competitors and potential competitors may also be able to develop products or services that are equal or superior to ours, achieve greater market acceptance of their products and services, and increase sales by utilizing different distribution channels than we do. our current and potential competitors may also offer point solutions, fabric and/or cloud security services that compete with some of the features present in our platform. they may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. in addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources, and new competitors may arise pursuant to acquisitions of network security companies or divisions. as a result of such acquisitions, competition in our market may continue to increase and our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily, or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. as our customers refresh the security products bought in prior years, they may seek to consolidate vendors, which may result in current customers choosing to purchase products from our competitors on an ongoing basis. due to budget constraints or economic downturns, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing network security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with our solutions. these competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. if functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our appliances to their network, which would have an adverse effect on our business. large, well-established providers of networking equipment such as cisco, f5 networks and juniper offer, and may continue to introduce, network security features that compete with our products, either in standalone security products or as additional features in their network infrastructure products. the inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our security solutions in networking products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. furthermore, even if the functionality offered by network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor such as us. many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of networking products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from other vendors such as us. in addition, an organization's existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only network security products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. if organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 32 table of contents risks related to intellectual property our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our products without compensating us. we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or products. any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. patent applications in the united states are typically not published until at least 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. in addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the united states may bring into question the validity of certain software patents and may make it more difficult and costly to prosecute patent applications. as a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or effectively enforce our issued patents. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot guarantee that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. policing unauthorized use of our technology or products is difficult. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the united states. from time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and products protected other than by patent rights), we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. our products contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including the gnu public license, the gnu lesser public license, the bsd license, the apache license, the mit x license and the mozilla public license. from time to time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants' intellectual property rights. we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as, for example, open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by u.s. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that, for example, could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make our proprietary code generally available in source code form, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which requirements could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 33 table of contents claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other litigation matters could harm our business. patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network security industry. third parties are currently asserting, have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us. they have also asserted such claims against our end-customers or channel partners whom we may indemnify against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. in addition, litigation may involve patent holding companies, non-practicing entities or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable, and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense, and may ultimately not be successful. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we are subject to lawsuits claiming patent infringement. we are also subject to other litigation in addition to patent infringement claims, such as employment-related litigation and disputes, as well as general commercial litigation, and could become subject to other forms of litigation and disputes, including stockholder litigation. if we are unsuccessful in defending any such claims, our operating results and financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. for example, we may be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling certain of our products. litigation, with or without merit, could negatively impact our business, reputation and sales in a material fashion. we have several ongoing patent lawsuits, certain companies have sent us demand letters proposing that we license certain of their patents, and organizations have sent letters demanding that we provide indemnification for patent claims. one such patent lawsuit by british telecommunications plc was filed in federal court in delaware in july 2018, and a second such lawsuit by finjan, inc. was filed in federal court in california in october 2018. given this and the proliferation of lawsuits in our industry and other similar industries by both non-practicing entities and operating entities, and recent non-practicing entity and operating entity patent litigation against other companies in the security space, we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. the cost to defend such lawsuits and any settlement payment or adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on the availability of third-party licenses. many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. licensors may claim we owe them additional license fees for past and future use of their software and other intellectual property or that we cannot utilize such software or intellectual property in our products going forward. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms or for reasonable pricing, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and may result in significant license fees and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. we also rely on technologies licensed from third parties in order to operate functions of our business. if any of these third parties allege that we have not properly paid for such licenses or that we have improperly used the technologies under such licenses, we may need to pay additional fees or obtain new licenses, and such licenses may not be available on terms 34 table of contents acceptable to us or at all or may be costly. in any such case, or if we were required to redesign our internal operations to function with new technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. risks related to ownership of our common stock as a public company, we are subject to compliance initiatives that will require substantial time from our management and result in significantly increased costs that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sarbanes-oxley ), dodd-frank and other rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq stock market impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. these requirements, as well as proposed corporate governance laws and regulations under consideration, may further increase our compliance costs. if compliance with these various legal and regulatory requirements diverts our management's attention from other business concerns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. sarbanes-oxley requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually, and of our disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. although our most recent assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that, as of december 31, 2018, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in 2019 or future periods. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. in september 2018, california enacted a law that requires publicly held companies headquartered in california to have at least one female director by the end of 2019 and at least three by the end of 2021, depending on the size of the board. the law would impose financial penalties for failure to comply. though we are currently in compliance with the requirements of the law for 2019, we may incur costs associated with complying with the law in future years, including costs associated with expanding our board of directors or identifying qualified candidates for appointment to our board of directors, or financial penalties or harm to our brand and reputation if we are unable to do so. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices, and varying interpretations of existing or new accounting pronouncements, such as changes to standards related to revenue recognition, equity investment valuation (which became effective for us beginning on january 1, 2018) and accounting for leases (which became effective for us on january 1, 2019), as well as the significant costs incurred or that may be incurred to adopt and to comply with these new pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. if we do not ensure that our systems and processes are aligned with the new standards, we could encounter difficulties generating quarterly and annual financial statements in a timely manner, which would have an adverse effect on our business, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and compliance with internal control requirements. we have adopted the new revenue recognition standard as of january 1, 2018. refer to note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information on the new standard and its impact on us. the new revenue standard is principles based and interpretation of those principles may vary from company to company based on their unique circumstances. management will continue to make judgments and assumptions based on our interpretation of the new standard. it is possible that interpretation, industry practice and guidance may evolve as we work toward implementing the new revenue recognition standard. if our circumstances change or if actual circumstances differ from our assumptions, our operating result may be adversely affected and could fall below our publicly announced guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock. further, the new equity investment valuation standard, which requires most equity investments to be measured at fair value (with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net income), may increase the volatility of our earnings. if securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. if we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could 35 table of contents decline. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this periodic report, news about us and our financial results, news about our competitors and their results, and other factors such as rumors or fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. for example, during 2018, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $43.83 to $92.29 per share. furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. share repurchases under our repurchase program (the repurchase program ) could increase the volatility of the trading price of our common stock, could diminish our cash reserves, could occur at non-optimal prices and may not result in the most effective use of our capital. in 2018, our board of directors approved the increase in the aggregate authorized repurchase amount under the repurchase program by $500.0 million, bringing the total authorization to $1.5 billion. share repurchases under the repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock, increase stock price volatility and diminish our cash reserves. in addition, an announcement of the reduction, suspension or termination of the repurchase program could result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. moreover, despite analyses we perform in connection with repurchases under the repurchase program to determine the appropriate prices for repurchases of our stock, our stock price could decline, resulting in repurchases made at non-optimal prices. our failure to repurchase our stock at optimal prices may be perceived by investors as an inefficient use of our cash and cash equivalents, which could result in litigation that may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, while our board of directors carefully considers various alternative uses of our cash and cash equivalents in determining whether to authorize stock repurchases, there can be no assurance that the decision by our board of directors to repurchase stock would result in in the most effective uses of our cash and cash equivalents, and there may be alternative uses of our cash and cash equivalents that would be more effective, such as investing in growing our business organically or through acquisitions. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. our corporate governance documents include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; providing that certain litigation matters may only be brought against us in state or federal courts in the state of delaware; 36 table of contents controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. however, these anti-takeover provisions will not have the effect of preventing activist stockholders from seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as nominating board candidates and requesting that we pursue strategic combinations or other transactions. these actions could disrupt our operations, be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and employees. in addition, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of activist stockholder actions could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, as well as other negative business consequences. actions of an activist stockholder may also cause fluctuations in our stock price based on speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect our business. further, we may incur significant expenses in retaining professionals to advise and assist us on activist stockholder matters, including legal, financial, communications advisors and solicitation experts, which may negatively impact our future financial results. 37 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate fluctuation risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and investments in a variety of securities, including corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit and term deposits, commercial paper, money market funds, and u.s. government and agency securities. the risk associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio. a 10% decrease in interest rates in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 would have resulted in an insignificant decrease in our interest income in each of these periods. foreign currency exchange risk our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency translation risk. however, a substantial portion of our operating expenses incurred outside the united states are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the canadian dollar ( cad ), the euro ( eur ) and the british pound ( gbp ). to help protect against significant fluctuations in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we engage in foreign currency risk management activities to minimize the impact of balance sheet items denominated in cad. we do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. all of the derivative instruments are with high quality financial institutions and we monitor the credit worthiness of these parties. these contracts typically have a maturity of one month and settle on the last day of each month. we record changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts related to balance sheet accounts in other income (expense) net in the consolidated statements of income. we recognized an expense of $9.3 million in 2018 due to foreign currency transaction and hedging losses. our use of forward exchange contracts is intended to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. our forward exchange contracts are relatively short-term in nature and are focused on the cad. long-term material changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, such as the eur and gbp, could adversely impact our operating expenses in the future. we assessed the risk of loss in fair values from the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates. for foreign currency exchange rate risk, a 10% increase or decrease of foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a $6.2 million change in the value of our foreign currency cash balances as of december 31, 2018. inflation risk our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are not affected significantly by inflation because they are predominantly short-term. we believe the impact of inflation on replacement costs of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. the rate of inflation, however, affects our cost of revenue and expenses, such as those for employee compensation, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of products and services offered by us. 65 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. investors should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially, and investors may lose some or all of their investment. risks related to our business our operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control or may be difficult to predict, including: our ability to attract and retain new end-customers or sell additional products and services to our existing end-customers; the level of demand for our products and services, which may render forecasts inaccurate; the timing of channel partner and end-customer orders, and our reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of each quarter; the timing of shipments, which may depend on factors such as inventory levels, logistics, manufacturing or shipping delays, our ability to ship new products on schedule and our ability to accurately forecast inventory requirements; inventory management; component and product inventory shortages, including those caused by factors outside of our control such as natural disasters and health emergencies, including earthquakes, fires, power outages, typhoons, floods, pandemics or epidemics such as the coronavirus and manmade events such as civil unrest, labor disruption, international trade disputes, international conflicts, terrorism, wars and critical infrastructure attacks; the mix of products sold and the mix of revenue between products and services, as well as the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; the purchasing practices and budgeting cycles of our channel partners and end-customers, including the effect of the end of product refresh cycles; any decreases in demand by channel partners or end-customers, including any such decreases caused by factors outside of our control such as natural disasters and health emergencies, including earthquakes, fires, power outages, typhoons, floods, pandemics or epidemics such as the coronavirus and manmade events such as civil unrest, labor disruption, international trade disputes, international conflicts, terrorism, wars and critical infrastructure attacks; the effectiveness of our sales organization, generally or in a particular geographic region, the time it takes to hire sales personnel and the timing of hiring, and our ability to hire and retain effective sales personnel; sales execution risk related to effectively selling to all segments of the market, including enterprise and small- and medium-sized businesses and service providers, and to selling our broad security product and services portfolio, including, among other execution risks, risks associated with the complexity and distraction in selling to all segments and increased competition and unpredictability of timing to close sales deals with large enterprises; 10 table of contents execution risk associated with our efforts to capture the opportunities related to our identified growth drivers, such as risk associated with our ability to capitalize on network security and sd-wan, infrastructure security, cloud security and endpoint protection, iot and ot security opportunities; the seasonal buying patterns of our end-customers; the timing and level of our investments in sales and marketing, and the impact of such investments on our operating expenses, operating margin and the productivity and effectiveness of execution of our sales and marketing teams; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales; the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; any actual or perceived vulnerabilities in our products or services, and any actual or perceived breach of our network or our customers' networks; changes in the requirements, market needs or buying practices and patterns of our distributors, resellers or end-customers; changes in the growth rates of the network security market in particular and other security and networking markets, such as sd-wan, for which we sell products and services; the timing and success of new product and service introductions or enhancements by us or our competitors, or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors, partners or end-customers; the deferral of orders from distributors, resellers or end-customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; increases or decreases in our billings, revenue and expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or a strengthening of the u.s. dollar, as a significant portion of our expenses is incurred and paid in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, and the impact such fluctuations may have on the actual prices that our partners and customers are willing to pay for our products and services; compliance with existing laws and regulations that are applicable to our ability to conduct business with the public sector and other sectors; litigation, litigation fees and costs, settlements, judgments and other equitable and legal relief granted related to litigation; the impact of cloud-based platforms on our billings, revenues, operating margins and free cash flow; decisions by potential end-customers to purchase network security solutions from newer technology providers, from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; price competition and increased competitiveness in our market, including the competitive pressure caused by product refresh cycles; our ability to both increase revenues and manage and control operating expenses in order to improve our operating margins; changes in customer renewal rates or attached rates for our services; changes in the payment terms of services contracts or the contractual term of services contracts sold; changes in payment terms of our contracts with service providers and distributors; changes in our estimated annual effective tax rates; 11 table of contents changes in circumstances and challenges in business conditions, including decreased demand, which may negatively impact our channel partners' ability to sell the current inventory they hold and negatively impact their future purchases of products from us; increased demand for cloud-based services and the uncertainty associated with transitioning to providing such services; increased expenses, unforeseen liabilities or write-downs and any impact on results of operations from any acquisition consummated; our channel partners having insufficient financial resources to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions; disruptions in our channel or termination of our relationship with important channel partners, including as a result of consolidation among distributors and resellers of security solutions; insolvency, credit or other difficulties confronting our key suppliers and channel partners, which could affect their ability to purchase or pay for products and services and which could disrupt our supply or distribution chain; policy changes and uncertainty with respect to immigration laws, trade policy and tariffs, including increased tariffs applicable to countries where we manufacture our products, foreign imports and tax laws related to international commerce; political, economic and social instability, including geo-political instability and uncertainty, such as the impact of the united kingdom's exit from the european union ( brexit ); general economic conditions, both in domestic and foreign markets; future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies as well as the significant costs that may be incurred to adopt and comply with these new pronouncements; possible impairments or acceleration of depreciation of our existing real estate due to our current real estate holdings and future development plans; and legislative or regulatory changes, such as with respect to privacy, information and cybersecurity, exports, the environment and applicable accounting standards. any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial and other operating results. this variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. if we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. in addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature over the near term. accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. in addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. weak global and regional economic conditions and spending environments, geopolitical instability and uncertainty, weak economic conditions in certain regions or a reduction in information technology spending regardless of macro-economic conditions could have adverse impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our channel partners, reduced unit sales and slower or declining growth. 12 table of contents our billings, revenue, operating margin and free cash flow growth may slow or may not continue. we may experience slowing growth, or a decrease, in billings, revenue, operating margin and free cash flow for a number of reasons, including a slowdown in demand for our products or services, a shift in demand from products to services, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market or softness in demand in certain geographies or industry verticals, such as the service provider industry, changes in our strategic opportunities, execution risks and our failure for any reason to continue to capitalize on sales and growth opportunities due to other risks identified in the risk factors described in this periodic report. our expenses as a percentage of total revenue may be higher than expected if our revenue is lower than expected and, if our investments in sales and marketing and other functional areas do not result in expected billings and revenue growth, we may experience margin declines and may not be able to sustain profitability in future periods if we fail to increase billings, revenue or deferred revenue, do not appropriately manage our cost structure and free cash flow or encounter unanticipated liabilities. any failure by us to maintain profitability, maintain our margins and continue our billings, revenue and free cash flow growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. we rely significantly on revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services, and revenue from these services may decline or fluctuate. because we recognize revenue from these services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales of fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue has historically accounted for a significant percentage of our total revenue. revenue from the sale of new, or from the renewal of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support service contracts may decline and fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in purchases of fortigate appliances or our fortinet security fabric platform products, changes in the sales mix between products and services, end-customers' level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors, reductions in our customers' spending levels and the timing of revenue recognition with respect to these arrangements. if our sales of new, or renewals of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support service contracts decline, our revenue and revenue growth may decline and our business could suffer. in addition, in the event significant customers require payment terms for fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services in arrears or for shorter periods of time than annually, such as monthly or quarterly, this may negatively impact our billings and revenue. furthermore, we recognize fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue monthly over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically from one to five years. as a result, much of the fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts entered into during previous quarters or years. consequently, a decline in new or renewed fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales of new, or renewals of existing, fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services is not reflected in full in our statements of income until future periods. our fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services revenue also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional service sales in any period, as revenue from new and renewal support services contracts must be recognized over the applicable service period. we generate a majority of revenue from sales to distributors, resellers and end-customers outside of the united states, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. we market and sell our products throughout the world and have established sales offices in many parts of the world. our international sales have represented a majority of our total revenue in recent periods. therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. we are also subject to a number of risks typically associated with international sales and operations, including: economic or political instability in foreign markets; greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and accounts receivable collection, including longer collection periods; longer sales processes for larger deals, particularly during the summer months; changes in regulatory requirements; 13 table of contents difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; costs of compliance with foreign policies, laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such policies, laws and regulations; any disruption in manufacturing or shipping or decreases in demand by channel partners or end-customers, including any such disruption or decreases caused by factors outside of our control such as natural disasters and health emergencies, including earthquakes, fires, power outages, typhoons, floods, pandemics or epidemics such as the coronavirus and manmade events such as civil unrest, labor disruption, international trade disputes, international conflicts, terrorism, wars and critical infrastructure attacks; protectionist policies and penalties, and local laws, requirements, policies and perceptions that may adversely impact a u.s.-headquartered business's sales in certain countries outside of the united states; costs of complying with, and the risks, reputational damage and other costs of non-compliance with, u.s. or other foreign laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act 2010, the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), import and export control laws, trade laws and regulations, tariffs and retaliatory measures, trade barriers and economic sanctions; other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales or sales-related arrangements, such as sales side agreements to allow return rights, that could disrupt the sales team through terminations of employment or otherwise, and may adversely impact financial results as compared to those already reported or forecasted and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; our ability to effectively implement and maintain adequate internal controls to properly manage our international sales and operations; political unrest, changes and uncertainty associated with terrorism, hostilities, war or natural disasters; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; and changes in tax, tariff, employment and other laws. product and service sales and employee and contractor matters may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country. further, we may be unable to keep up to date with changes in government requirements as they change over time. failure to comply with these regulations could result in adverse effects to our business. in many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in litigation, regulatory action, costs of investigation, delays in revenue recognition, delays in financial reporting, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may undertake corporate operating restructurings or transfers of assets that involve our group of foreign country subsidiaries through which we do business abroad, in order to maximize the operational and tax efficiency of our group structure. if ineffectual, such restructurings or transfers could increase our income tax liabilities, and in turn, increase our global effective tax rate. moreover, our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a 14 table of contents manner that we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. however, the tax authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, which could impact our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and operating results. if we are not successful in continuing to execute our strategy to increase our sales to large and medium-sized end-customers, our results of operations may suffer. an important part of our growth strategy is to increase sales of our products to large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations. while we have increased sales in recent periods to large and medium-sized businesses, our sales volume varies by quarter and there is risk as to our level of success selling to these target customers. such sales involve unique sales skillsets, processes and structures, are often more complex and feature a longer contract term and may be at higher discount levels. we also have experienced uneven traction selling to certain government organizations and service providers and managed security service providers ( mssps ), and there can be no assurance that we will be successful selling to these customers. sales to these organizations involve risks that may not be present, or that are present to a lesser extent, with sales to smaller entities. these risks include: increased competition from competitors that traditionally target large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations and that may already have purchase commitments from those end-customers; increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end-customers in negotiating contractual arrangements; unanticipated changes in the capital resources or purchasing behavior of large end-customers, including changes in the volume and frequency of their purchases and changes in the mix of products and services, willingness to change to cloud delivery model and related payment terms; more stringent support requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, more complex requirements and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end-customer that elects not to purchase our products and services; uncertainty as to timing to close large deals and any delays in closing those deals; and longer ramp-up periods for enterprise sales personnel as compared to other sales personnel. large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and mssps and government organizations often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases longer than 12 months. although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with end-customers, along with our distributors and resellers, in connection with sales to large and medium-sized end-customers. we may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without being successful in producing any sales. in addition, purchases by large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. furthermore, service providers and mssps represent our largest industry vertical and consolidation or continued changes in buying behavior by larger customers within this industry could negatively impact our business. large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and mssps and government organizations typically have longer implementation cycles, require greater product functionality and scalability, expect a broader range of services, including design, implementation and post go-live services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. in addition, large and medium-sized businesses, service providers and government organizations may require that our products and services be sold differently from how we offer our products and services, which could negatively impact our operating results. our large business and service provider customers may also become more deliberate in their purchases as they plan their next-generation network security architecture, leading them to take more time in making purchasing decisions or to purchase based only on their immediate needs. all these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these customers. in addition, if sales expected from a large and medium-sized end-customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 15 table of contents managing inventory of our products and product components is complex. insufficient inventory or components may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed revenue, while excess inventory may harm our gross margins. managing our inventory is complex. our channel partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders or not place orders commensurate with our expectations if their inventory is too high, return products or take advantage of price protection (if any is available to the particular partner) or delay orders in anticipation of new products, and accurately forecasting inventory requirements and demand can be challenging. our channel partners also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-customer demand. furthermore, if the time required to manufacture or ship certain products increases for any reason, inventory shortfalls could result. if we cannot manufacture and ship our products due to, for example, natural disasters and health emergencies such as earthquakes, fires, power outages, typhoons, floods, pandemics and epidemics such as the coronavirus or manmade events such as civil unrest, labor disruption, international trade disputes, international conflicts, terrorism, wars and critical infrastructure attacks, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. management of our inventory is further complicated by the significant number of different products and models that we sell which may impact our billings, revenue, margins and free cash flow. mismanagement of our inventory, whether due to imprecise forecasting, employee errors or malfeasance, inaccurate information or otherwise, may adversely affect our results of operations. inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain inventory levels that are sufficient to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology, product transitions, customer requirements or excess inventory levels. if we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. alternatively, insufficient inventory levels may lead to shortages that result in delayed billings and revenue or loss of sales opportunities altogether as potential end-customers turn to competitors' products that are readily available. for example, we have in the past experienced inventory shortages and excesses due to the variance in demand for certain products from forecasted amounts. in addition, for those channel partners that have rights of return, inventory held by such channel partners affects our results of operations. our inventory management systems and related supply chain visibility tools may be inadequate to enable us to effectively manage inventory. if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory and that of our channel partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. widespread health problems, such as the outbreak and spread of the coronavirus, could adversely affect our business in a material way. while the majority of our products are manufactured outside of china, certain components for our products and certain of our products are manufactured in china and taiwan. in addition, certain of our logistics and shipping operations are in taiwan. we also have other operations in asia. pandemics and epidemics such as the current coronavirus outbreak or other widespread public health problems could negatively impact our business. if, for example, the coronavirus progresses in ways that disrupt the manufacture or shipment of our products or otherwise disrupt our operations, this may materially negatively impact our operating results for the first quarter of 2020 and subsequent periods, including billings, revenue, gross margins, operating margins, cash flows and other operating results and our overall business. if the coronavirus spreads in ways that continue to negatively impact the overall economy and buying patterns of partners or potential customers, this would negatively impact, and may materially negatively impact, our sales, operating results and business. if the spread of the coronavirus limits the manufacturing of our products, either by limiting components available or by limiting the actual manufacture and assembly, this likely would result in increased product backlog, lower billings, lower revenue and decreased profitability and would negatively impact, and may materially negatively impact, our operating results and business. in addition, the coronavirus has caused an increase in our expenses, including increased cancellation charges and reduced attendance fees due to the cancellation of our accelerate barcelona sales conference, and it may result in increased component and product manufacturing costs. these increases in expenses will likely negatively impact, and may materially negatively impact, our operating results for the first quarter 2020 and in subsequent periods. as a result of the foregoing, the coronavirus will likely negatively impact our operating results and may do so in a material way. we are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute on our business plan and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. the loss of services of members of senior management, particularly ken xie, our co-founder, chief executive officer and chairman, or michael xie, our co-founder, president and chief technology officer, or of any of our senior sales leaders or functional area leaders, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. the loss of the services or the 16 table of contents distraction of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will suffer. our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, any failure to have in place and execute an effective succession plan for key executives or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering, sales and marketing, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we experience turnover in our management-level personnel. none of our key employees has an employment agreement for a specific term, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially for qualified sales, support and engineering employees in network security and especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for highly skilled personnel, such as the san francisco bay area and vancouver, canada. we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. changes in immigration laws, including changes to the rules regarding h1-b visas, may also harm our ability to attract personnel from other countries. our inability to hire properly qualified and effective sales, support and engineering employees could harm our growth and our ability to effectively support growth. if we do not increase the effectiveness of our sales organization, we may have difficulty adding new end-customers or increasing sales to our existing end-customers and our business may be adversely affected. although we have a channel sales model, sales in our industry are complex and members of our sales organization often engage in direct interaction with our prospective end-customers, particularly for larger deals involving larger end-customers. therefore, we continue to be substantially dependent on our sales organization to obtain new end-customers and sell additional products and services to our existing end-customers. there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require, including experienced enterprise sales employees and others. our ability to grow our revenue depends, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth and on the effectiveness of those personnel in selling successfully in different contexts, each of which has its own different complexities, approaches and competitive landscapes, such as managing and growing the channel business for sales to small businesses and more actively selling to the end-customer for sales to larger organizations. new hires require substantial training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. furthermore, hiring sales personnel in new countries requires additional setup and upfront costs that we may not recover if the sales personnel fail to achieve full productivity. if our sales employees do not become fully productive on the timelines that we have projected, our revenue will not increase at anticipated levels and our ability to achieve long-term projections may be negatively impacted. if we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new end-customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business, operating results and prospects will be adversely affected. if we do not hire properly qualified and effective sales employees and organize our sales team effectively to capture the opportunities in the various customer segments we are targeting, our growth and ability to effectively support growth would be harmed. the sales prices of our products and services may decrease, which may reduce our gross profits and operating margin, and which may adversely impact our financial results and the trading price of our common stock. the sales prices for our products and services may decline for a variety of reasons or our product mix may change, resulting in lower growth and margins based on a number of factors, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts or promotional programs we offer, a change in our mix of products and services and anticipation of the introduction of new products and services. competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products and services that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or services or may bundle them with other products or services. additionally, although we price our products and services worldwide in u.s. dollars, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions have in the past, and may in the future, negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions. furthermore, we anticipate that the sales prices and gross profits for our products or services will decrease over product life 17 table of contents cycles. we cannot ensure that we will be successful in developing and introducing new offerings with enhanced functionality on a timely basis, or that our product and service offerings, if introduced, will enable us to maintain our prices, gross profits and operating margin at levels that will allow us to maintain profitability. if our internal enterprise it networks, on which we conduct internal business and interface externally, our operational networks, through which we connect to customer systems and provide services, or our research and development networks, our back-end labs and cloud stacks through which we research and develop products and services, are compromised, public perception of our products and services may be harmed, our customers may be breached and harmed, we may become subject to liability, and our business, operating results and stock price may be adversely impacted. our success depends on the market's confidence in our ability to provide effective network security protection. despite our efforts and processes to prevent breaches of our internal network system and website, we are still vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service and other cyber-attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized access to our internal network system or our website. our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, which breaches may be more difficult to detect than outsider threats, and the existing programs and trainings we have in place to prevent such insider threats may not be effective or sufficient. third parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce our employees to transfer funds or disclose information in order to gain access to our network and confidential information. third parties may also send our customers or others malware or malicious emails that falsely indicate that we are the source, potentially causing lost confidence in us and reputational harm. we cannot guarantee that the measures we have taken to protect our network and website will provide adequate security. moreover, because we provide network security products, we may be a more attractive target for attacks by computer hackers and any security breaches and other security incidents involving us may result in more harm to our reputation and brand than companies that do not sell network security solutions. hackers and malicious parties may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products and customers, that impersonate our update servers in an effort to access customer networks and negatively impact customers, or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, or attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, customers or others to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or unwittingly provide access to our internal network system or data. for example, as we previously announced, in the second quarter of 2019 we discovered that an unauthorized party targeted us using sophisticated techniques, such as efforts to impersonate our firewall update servers, in order to try to gain access to certain of our customers' systems. although, based on our investigation of this incident, we do not believe that it had a material impact on our or our customers' businesses, and in general we take numerous measures and implement multiple layers of security to protect our network and our customers' networks, and, in this particular case, we took immediate additional action to protect our customers, we cannot guarantee that our security products and services will prevent all threats. further, we cannot be sure that third parties have not been, or will not in the future be, successful in improperly accessing our system and our customers' systems, which could negatively impact us and our customers. an actual or perceived breach, or any other actual or perceived data security incident, that involves our network, systems or website and/or our customers' network, systems or websites, including the specific matter that is discussed above, could adversely affect the market perception of our products and services and investor confidence in our company. any breach of our network system or website could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide fortiguard security subscription and forticare technical support services to our end-customers, lead to interruptions or system slowdowns, cause loss of critical data or lead to the unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential, proprietary or sensitive information. we could also be subject to liability and litigation and reputational harm and our channel partners and end-customers may be harmed, lose confidence in us and decrease or cease using our products and services. any breach of our internal network system or our website could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our billings and revenue to fall below expected levels. as a result of customer-buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas, we have historically received a substantial portion of each quarter's sales orders and generated a substantial portion of each quarter's billings and revenue during the last two weeks of the quarter. we implemented a cloud-based quoting tool to help provide our sales team with the ability to have faster quote generation, reduce quote errors and increase sales productivity. our ability to integrate the data from this tool into our order processing may cause order processing delays that could have an effect on our financial results. our billings and revenue for any quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price, if expected orders at the end of any quarter are delayed for any reason or our ability to fulfill orders at the end of any quarter is hindered for any reason, including, among others: the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize; 18 table of contents our logistics partners' inability to ship products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the quarter; disruption in manufacturing or shipping based on natural disasters or widespread public health problems including pandemics and epidemics such as the coronavirus outbreak; our failure to accurately forecast our inventory requirements and to appropriately manage inventory to meet demand; our inability to release new products on schedule; any failure of our systems related to order review and processing; and any delays in shipments due to trade compliance requirements, labor disputes or logistics changes at shipping ports, airline strikes, severe weather or otherwise. unless we continue to develop better market awareness of our company and our products, and to improve lead generation and sales enablement, our revenue may not continue to grow. increased market awareness of our capabilities and products and increased lead generation are essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large businesses, service provider and government organization market. we have historically had relatively low spending on marketing activities. while we have increased our investments in sales and marketing, it is not clear that these investments will continue to result in increased revenue. if our investments in additional sales personnel or our marketing programs are not successful in continuing to create market awareness of our company and products or increasing lead generation, or if we experience turnover and disruption in our sales and marketing teams, we will not be able to achieve sustained growth, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. we rely on third-party channel partners for substantially all of our revenue. if our partners fail to perform, our ability to sell our products and services will be limited, and if we fail to optimize our channel partner model going forward, our operating results may be harmed. additionally, a small number of distributors represents a large percentage of our revenue and gross accounts receivable, and one distributor accounted for 36% of our total net accounts receivable as of december 31, 2019. a significant portion of our sales is generated through a limited number of distributors, and substantially all of our revenue is from sales by our channel partners, including distributors and resellers. we depend on our channel partners to generate a significant portion of our sales opportunities and to manage our sales process. to the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or if we are unable to enter into arrangements with and retain a sufficient number of high-quality channel partners in each of the regions in which we sell products, we are unable to keep them motivated to sell our products, or our channel partners shift focus to other vendors and/or our competitors, our ability to sell our products and operating results may be harmed. the termination of our relationship with any significant channel partner may adversely impact our sales and operating results. we provide sales channel partners with specific programs to assist them with selling our products and incentivize them to sell our products, but there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective. in addition, our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services and may purchase more inventory than they can sell. our channel partners generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions. moreover, many of our channel partners are privately held, including our largest distributor exclusive networks, and we may not have sufficient information to assess their financial condition. if our channel partners' financial condition or operations weaken, their ability to sell our product and services could be negatively impacted. our channel partners may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products, or may decide to cease selling our products and services altogether in favor of a competitor's products and services. they may also have incentives to promote our competitors' products to the detriment of our own, or they may cease selling our products altogether. we cannot ensure that we will retain these channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement partners or that existing channel partners will continue to perform. the loss of one or more of our significant channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter through them could harm our operating results. 19 table of contents in addition, a small number of channel partners represents a large percentage of our revenue and gross accounts receivable. we are exposed to the credit and liquidity risk of some of our channel partners and to credit exposure in weakened markets, which could result in material losses. our dependence on a limited number of key channel partners means that our billings, revenue and operating results may be harmed by the inability of these key channel partners to successfully sell our products and services, or if any of these key channel partners is unable or unwilling to pay us, terminates its relationship with us or goes out of business. although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate credit and liquidity risks, we cannot guarantee these programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks. if we are unable to adequately control these risks, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be harmed. if channel partners fail to pay us under the terms of our agreements or we are otherwise unable to collect on our accounts receivable from these channel partners, we may be adversely affected both from the inability to collect amounts due and the cost of enforcing the terms of our contracts, including litigation. our channel partners may seek bankruptcy protection or other similar relief and fail to pay amounts due to us, or pay those amounts more slowly, either of which could adversely affect our operating results, financial position, and cash flow. we may be further impacted by consolidation of our existing channel partners. in such instances, we may experience changes to our overall business and operational relationships due to dealing with a larger combined entity, and our ability to maintain such relationships on favorable contractual terms may be more limited. we may also become increasingly dependent on a more limited number of channel partners, as consolidation increases the relative proportion of our business for which each channel partner is responsible, which may magnify the risks described in the preceding paragraphs. for example, in july 2017, exclusive , which distributes our solutions to a large group of resellers and end-customers, acquired fine tec u.s. since the acquisition of fine tec u.s., exclusive 's business with us has increased and may continue to increase in the future. exclusive accounted for 36% and 38% of our total net accounts receivable as of december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018, respectively. during 2017, 2018 and 2019, exclusive accounted for 25% , 30% and 31% of our total revenue, respectively. in addition to other risks associated with the concentration of accounts receivable and revenue from these distributors, exclusive is a private entity and we may not have sufficient information to assess its financial condition and, accordingly, if exclusive were to experience financial difficulties, we might not have advance notice. additionally, exclusive may face liquidity risk as a private equity-backed company, which may harm our ability to collect on our accounts receivable. in addition, any new sales channel partner will require extensive training and may take several months or more to achieve productivity. our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to end-customers or our channel partners violate laws or our corporate policies. we depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. if we fail to optimize our channel partner model or fail to manage existing sales channels, our business will be seriously harmed. actual, possible or perceived defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, the failure of our products or services to detect or prevent a security breach or the misuse of our products could harm our reputation and divert resources. because our products and services are complex, they have contained and may contain defects or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment by our customers. defects or vulnerabilities may impede or block network traffic, cause our products or services to be vulnerable to electronic break-ins, cause them to fail to help secure our customers or cause our products or services to allow unauthorized access to our customers' networks. we are also susceptible to errors, defects, vulnerabilities or attacks that may arise at, or be inserted into our products in, different stages in our supply chain, or manufacturing processes, and which are out of our control. attacks may target specific unidentified or unresolved vulnerabilities that exist or arrive only in the supply chain, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. different customers deploy and use our products in different ways, and certain deployments and usages may subject our products to adverse conditions that may negatively impact the effectiveness and useful lifetime of our products. our networks and products, including cloud-based technology, could be targeted by attacks specifically designed to disrupt our business and harm our reputation. we cannot ensure that our products will prevent all security threats. because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. in addition, defects or errors in our fortiguard security subscription or forticare updates or our fortigate appliances and operating systems could result in a failure of our fortiguard security subscription services to effectively update end-customers' fortigate appliances and cloud-based products and thereby leave customers vulnerable to attacks. furthermore, our solutions may also fail to detect or prevent viruses, worms or similar threats due to a number of reasons such as the evolving nature of such threats and the continual emergence of new threats that we may fail to add to our fortiguard databases in time to protect our end-customers' networks. our fortiguard or forticare data centers and networks may also experience technical failures and downtime, and may fail to distribute appropriate updates, 20 table of contents or fail to meet the increased requirements of our customer base. any such technical failure, downtime or failures in general may temporarily or permanently expose our end-customers' networks, leaving their networks unprotected against the latest security threats. an actual, possible or perceived security breach or infection of the network of one of our end-customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services to prevent the security breach, could adversely affect the market's perception of our security products and services and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. we may not be able to correct any security flaws or vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. our products may also be misused by end-customers or third parties who obtain access to our products. for example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the internet. such use of our products for censorship could result in negative press coverage and negatively affect our reputation, even if we take reasonable measures to prevent any improper shipment of our products or if our products are provided by an unauthorized third party. any actual, possible or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products, or misuse of our products, could result in: the expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; the loss of existing or potential end-customers or channel partners; delayed or lost revenue; delay or failure to attain market acceptance; negative publicity and harm to our reputation; and litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation and, in some instances, subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, including through the expansion of our real estate facilities, or are unable to improve our systems, processes and controls, our operating results will be negatively affected. we rely heavily on information technology to help manage critical functions such as order configuration, pricing and quoting, revenue recognition, financial forecasts, inventory and supply chain management and trade compliance reviews. in addition, we have been slow to adopt and implement certain automated functions, which could have a negative impact on our business. for example, a large part of our order processing relies on manual data entry of customer purchase orders received through email and, to a lesser extent, through electronic data interchange from our customers. due to the use of manual processes and the fact that we may receive a large amount of our orders in the last few weeks of any given quarter, an interruption in our email service or other systems could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased billings and revenue for that quarter. to manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial, operating, security and administrative systems and controls, and our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and processes. we must also continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. we may not be able to successfully implement requisite improvements to these systems, controls and processes, such as system capacity, access, security and change management controls, in a timely or efficient manner. our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, whether as a result of the significant growth of our business or otherwise, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. moreover, the failure of our systems and processes could undermine our ability to provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results and could impact the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our systems, processes and controls may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions, malfeasance or fraud, such as corruption and improper side agreements that may impact revenue recognition or result in financial liability. our productivity and the quality of our products and services may also be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination throughout our organization. failure to ensure appropriate systems, processes and controls and to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our reputation and results of operations. 21 table of contents we have expanded our office real estate holdings to meet our projected growing need for office space. we have started construction on a second building adjacent to our headquarters as we expand our campus in sunnyvale, california. these plans will require significant capital expenditure over the next several years and involve certain risks, including impairment charges and acceleration of depreciation, changes in future business strategy that may decrease the need for expansion (such as a decrease in headcount) and risks related to construction. future changes in growth or fluctuations in cash flow may also negatively impact our ability to pay for these projects or free cash flow. additionally, inaccuracies in our projected capital expenditures could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. we may experience difficulties maintaining and expanding our internal business management systems. the maintenance of our internal business management systems, such as our enterprise resource planning ( erp ) and customer relationship management ( crm ) systems, has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant financial and human resources. in addition, we may choose to upgrade or expand the functionality of our internal systems, leading to additional costs. we may also discover deficiencies in our design or maintenance of our internal systems that could adversely affect our ability to forecast orders, process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations, accurately maintain books and records, provide accurate, timely and reliable reports on our financial and operating results or otherwise operate our business. additionally, if any of our internal systems does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected or our ability to assess it adequately could be delayed. further, we may expand the scope of our erp and crm systems. our operating results may be adversely affected if these upgrades or expansions are delayed or if the systems do not function as intended or are not sufficient to meet our operating requirements. if our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and estimates in this annual report on form 10-k, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, deferred contract costs and commission expense, valuation of inventory, accounting for business combination, contingent liabilities and accounting for income taxes. we offer retroactive price protection to certain of our major distributors, and if we fail to balance their inventory with end-customer demand for our products, our allowance for price protection may be inadequate, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we provide certain of our major distributors with price protection rights for inventories of our products held by them. if we reduce the list price of our products, certain distributors receive refunds or credits from us that reduce the price of such products held in their inventory based upon the new list price. future credits for price protection will depend on the percentage of our price reductions for the products in inventory and our ability to manage the levels of our major distributors' inventories. if future price protection adjustments are higher than expected, our future results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. because we depend on several third-party manufacturers to build our products, we are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers, and third-party manufacturing cost increases could result in lower gross margins and free cash flow. we outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to contract manufacturing partners and original design manufacturing partners, including manufacturers with facilities located in taiwan, china and other countries outside the united states such as micro-star, wistron, senao, adlink and ibase. our reliance on our third-party manufacturers in asia and elsewhere reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, costs, supply and timing and possible tariffs. any manufacturing disruption related to our third-party manufacturers or their component suppliers for any reason, including natural disasters and health emergencies such as earthquakes, fires, 22 table of contents power outages, typhoons, floods, health pandemics and epidemics such as the coronavirus and manmade events such as civil unrest, labor disruption, international trade disputes, international conflicts, terrorism, wars and critical infrastructure attacks, could impair our ability to fulfill orders. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, increased manufacturing lead-times, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship products to our customers could be impaired and our business would be seriously harmed. these manufacturers fulfill our supply requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders. we have no long-term contracts or arrangements with our third-party manufacturers that guarantee capacity, the continuation of particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for manufacturing services could be increased on short notice. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers would be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue or an increase in our costs, which could adversely affect our gross margins. our individual product lines are generally manufactured by only one manufacturing partner. any production or shipping interruptions for any reason, such as a natural disaster, epidemic, capacity shortages, quality problems or strike or other labor disruption at one of our manufacturing partners or locations or at shipping ports or locations, would severely affect sales of our product lines manufactured by that manufacturing partner. furthermore, manufacturing cost increases for any reason could result in lower gross margins. our proprietary spu s, which are key to the performance of our appliances, are built by contract manufacturers including renesas and toshiba. these contract manufacturers use foundries operated by tsmc or renesas on a purchase-order basis, and these foundries do not guarantee their capacity and could delay orders or increase their pricing. accordingly, the foundries are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and due to the long lead time that a new foundry would require, we could suffer inventory shortages of our spu as well as increased costs. in addition to our proprietary spu , we also purchase off-the-shelf asic or integrated circuits from vendors for which we have experienced, and may continue to experience, long lead times. our suppliers may also prioritize orders by other companies that order higher volumes or more profitable products. if any of these manufacturers materially delays its supply of asic or specific product models to us, or requires us to find an alternate supplier and we are not able to do so on a timely and reasonable basis, or if these foundries materially increase their prices for fabrication of our asic s, our business would be harmed. in addition, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and foundries limits our control over environmental regulatory requirements such as the hazardous substance content of our products and therefore our ability to ensure compliance with the restriction of hazardous substances directive (the eu rohs ) adopted in the european union (the eu ) and other similar laws. it also exposes us to the risk that certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, that are contained in our products have originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. as a result of the passage of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( dodd-frank ), the sec adopted disclosure requirements for public companies whose products contain conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of such products. under these rules, we are required to obtain sourcing data from suppliers, perform supply chain due diligence, and file annually with the sec a specialized disclosure report on form sd covering the prior calendar year. we have incurred and expect to incur additional costs to comply with the rules, including costs related to efforts to determine the origin, source and chain of custody of the conflict minerals used in our products and the adoption of conflict minerals-related governance policies, processes and controls. moreover, the implementation of these compliance measures could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products to the extent that there may be only a limited number of suppliers that are able to meet our sourcing requirements, which would make it more difficult to obtain such materials in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. we may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free. if we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to not purchase our products, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply, we are susceptible to supply shortages, long lead times for components, and supply changes, each of which could disrupt or delay our scheduled product deliveries to our customers, result in inventory shortage, cause loss of sales and customers or increase component costs resulting in lower gross margins and free cash flow. we and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key parts and components used in the manufacture of our products from limited sources of supply. we are therefore subject to the risk of shortages and long lead times in the supply of these components and the risk that component suppliers may discontinue or modify components used in our products. we have in the past experienced, and are currently experiencing, shortages and long lead times for certain components. our limited source components for particular appliances and suppliers of those components include specific types of cpus from intel, network chips from broadcom, marvell and intel, and memory devices from intel, adata, toshiba, samsung and western 23 table of contents digital. we also may face shortages in the supply of the capacitors and resistors that are used in the manufacturing of our products. the introduction by component suppliers of new versions of their products, particularly if not anticipated by us or our contract manufacturers, could require us to expend significant resources to incorporate these new components into our products. in addition, if these suppliers were to discontinue production of a necessary part or component, we would be required to expend significant resources and time in locating and integrating replacement parts or components from another vendor. qualifying additional suppliers for limited source parts or components can be time-consuming and expensive. our manufacturing partners have experienced long lead times for the purchase of components incorporated into our products. lead times for components may be adversely impacted by factors outside of our control such as natural disasters and health emergencies such as earthquakes, fires, power outages, typhoons, floods, health pandemics and epidemics such as the coronavirus, and manmade events such as civil unrest, labor disruption, international trade disputes, international conflicts, terrorism, wars, critical infrastructure attacks and other factors. our reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several additional risks, including: a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required parts or components when required; financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers; infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property; price increases; failure of a component to meet environmental or other regulatory requirements; failure to meet delivery obligations in a timely fashion; failure in component quality; and inability to ship products on a timely basis. the occurrence of any of these events would be disruptive to us and could seriously harm our business. any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts or components, or the inability to obtain these parts or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our distributors, resellers and end-customers. this could harm our relationships with our channel partners and end-customers and could cause delays in shipment of our products and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, increased component costs could result in lower gross margins. we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating expenses are incurred outside the united states. these expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the euro, brazilian real, canadian dollar and british pound. additionally, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the canadian dollar may negatively impact our development plans in burnaby, canada. while we are not currently engaged in material hedging activities, we have been hedging currency exposures relating to certain balance sheet accounts through the use of forward exchange contracts. if we stop hedging against any of these risks or if our attempts to hedge against these currency exposures are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore, while substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk, it does not serve as a hedge to our foreign currency-denominated operating expenses. in addition, a strengthening of the u.s. dollar may increase the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the united states, which may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business could subject us to fines and penalties and could also cause us to lose end-customers in the public sector or negatively impact our ability to contract with the public sector. our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, regional, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, product labeling, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, data privacy laws, import and export controls, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations. in certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be 24 table of contents more stringent than in the united states. non-compliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages and civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. if any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. in addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management's attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. for example, the gdpr, which became effective in may 2018 and superseded current eu data protection regulations, imposes stringent data handling requirements on companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the eu. non-compliance with the gdpr could result in significant penalties, including data protection audits and heavy fines. compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, the gdpr may limit our ability to operate or expand our business in europe and could adversely impact our operating results, as could delays or shortcomings in the implementation of our gdpr compliance program. additionally, we may be subject to other legal regimes throughout the world governing data handling, protection and privacy. for example, in june 2018, california passed the california consumer privacy act (the ccpa ), which provides new data privacy rights for consumers and new operational requirements for companies and became effective on january 1, 2020. fines for non-compliance may be up to $7,500 per violation. the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the gdpr and ccpa may limit the use and adoption of our products and services and could have an adverse impact on our business. selling our solutions to the u.s. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements and risks. failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, suspension or debarment from doing business with the u.s. government or one of its divisions, and other penalties and damages, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. as an example, the u.s. department of justice (the doj ) has in the past pursued claims against, and obtained monetary settlements or damages from, companies, including us, under the false claims act and other statutes related to pricing, discount practices and compliance with laws related to sales to the federal government, such as the trade agreements act (the taa ). the doj continues to actively pursue such claims. any violations of regulatory and contractual requirements could result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting. any of these outcomes could have an adverse effect on our revenue, operating results, financial condition and prospects. these laws and regulations impose added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements, including non-compliance in the past, could lead to claims for damages from our channel partners, penalties, termination of contracts, loss of exclusive rights in our intellectual property and temporary suspension or permanent debarment from government contracting. any such damages, penalties, disruptions or limitations in our ability to do business with the public sector could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. global economic uncertainty and weakening product demand caused by political instability and conflict could adversely affect our business and financial performance. economic uncertainty in various global markets caused by political instability and conflict has resulted, and may continue to result, in weakened demand for our products and services and difficulty in forecasting our financial results and managing inventory levels. political developments impacting government spending and international trade, including potential government shutdowns and election year instability in the united states, continued uncertainty surrounding the united kingdom's departure from the eu and trade disputes and tariffs, may negatively impact markets and cause weaker macro-economic conditions. the effects of these events may continue due to potential additional u.s. government shutdowns and developments resulting from the 2020 presidential election, instability in the united kingdom and the eu as negotiations for the terms of brexit continue, with the ultimate outcome still uncertain, and the united states' ongoing trade disputes with china and other countries. the continuing effect of any or all of these events could adversely impact demand for our products, harm our operations and weaken our financial results. we are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or restrictions on sales, and that could impair our ability to compete in international markets. because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, certain of our products are subject to u.s. export controls and may be exported outside the united states only with the required export license or through an export license exception, or may be prohibited altogether from export to certain countries. if we were to fail to comply with u.s. export laws, u.s. customs regulations and import regulations, u.s. economic sanctions and other countries' import and export laws, we 25 table of contents could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. in addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits (e.g. for stocking orders placed by our partners), we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties and we may not be able to provide support related to appliances shipped pursuant to such orders. obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. furthermore, u.s. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to u.s. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to u.s. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners, despite such precautions. any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations and penalties and reputational harm. in addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. efforts to withdraw from or materially modify international trade agreements, to change tax provisions related to global manufacturing and sales or to impose new tariffs, economic sanctions or related legislation, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our business benefits directly and indirectly from free trade agreements, and we also rely on various u.s. corporate tax provisions related to international commerce, as we develop, market and sell our products and services globally. efforts to withdraw from or materially modify international trade agreements, or to change corporate tax policy related to international commerce, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as could the continuing uncertainty regarding whether such actions will be taken. moreover, efforts to implement changes related to export or import regulations (including the imposition of new border taxes or tariffs on foreign imports), trade barriers, economic sanctions and other related policies could harm our results of operations. for example, during 2018 and 2019 the united states imposed additional import tariffs on certain goods from different countries and on most of chinese imported goods. as a result, china and other countries imposed retaliatory tariffs on goods exported from the united states and both the united states and foreign countries have threatened to alter or leave current trade agreements. while we do not currently expect these tariffs to have a significant effect on our raw material and product import costs, if the united states expands increased tariffs, or retaliatory trade measures are taken by china or other countries in response to the tariffs, the cost of our products could increase, our operations could be disrupted or we could be required to raise our prices, which may result in the loss of customers and harm to our reputation and operating performance. any modification in these areas, any shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or any change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential end-customers with international operations and could result in increased costs. any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, operating results and reputation could be adversely affected. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products, laws relating to our real property and future expansion plans and laws concerning the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the laws and regulations to which we are subject include the eu rohs directive, eu registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals and the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (the weee directive ), as well as the implementing legislation of the eu member states. similar laws and regulations have been passed or are pending in china, south korea, norway and japan and may be enacted in other regions, including in the united states, and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. 26 table of contents the eu rohs directive and the similar laws of other jurisdictions ban or restrict the presence of certain hazardous substances such as lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium and certain fire-retardant plastic additives in electrical equipment, including our products. we have incurred costs to comply with these laws, including research and development costs, costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components and costs associated with writing off scrapped noncompliant inventory. we expect to continue to incur costs related to environmental laws and regulations in the future. with respect to the eu rohs, we and our competitors rely on exemptions for lead and other substances in network infrastructure equipment. it is possible one or more of these use exemptions will be revoked in the future. additionally, although some of the eu rohs exemptions have been extended, it is possible that some of these exemptions may expire in the future without being extended. if this exemption is revoked or expires without extension, if there are other changes to these laws (or their interpretation) or if new similar laws are passed in other jurisdictions, we may be required to re-engineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. this re-engineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us and/or disrupt our operations or logistics. the eu has also adopted the weee directive, which requires electronic goods producers to be responsible for the collection, recycling and treatment of such products. although currently our eu international channel partners are responsible for the requirements of this directive as the importer of record in most of the european countries in which we sell our products, changes in interpretation of the regulations may cause us to incur costs or have additional regulatory requirements in the future to meet in order to comply with this directive, or with any similar laws adopted in other jurisdictions. our failure to comply with these and future environmental rules and regulations could result in reduced sales of our products, increased costs, substantial product inventory write-offs, reputational damage, penalties and other sanctions. a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. sales to u.s. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to government organizations. sales to government organizations are subject to a number of risks. selling to government organizations can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense, with long sales cycles and without any assurance of winning a sale. government demand, sales and payment for our products and services may be negatively impacted by numerous factors and requirements unique to selling to government agencies, such as: public sector budgetary cycles; funding authorizations and requirements unique to government agencies, with funding or purchasing reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products; geopolitical matters, including tariff and trade disputes, brexit and government shutdowns; and rules and regulations applicable to certain government sales, including gsa regulations. the rules and regulations applicable to sales to government organizations may also negatively impact sales to other organizations. to date, we have had limited traction in sales to u.s. federal government agencies, and any future sales to government organizations is uncertain. government organizations may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. for example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such government organization, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such distributor. governments routinely investigate, review and audit government vendors' administrative and other processes, and any unfavorable investigation, audit or other review could result in the government's refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines, or civil or criminal liability if the investigation, audit or other review uncovers improper, illegal or otherwise concerning activities. any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way. finally, purchases by the u.s. government may require certain products to be manufactured in the united states and other high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the u.s. government. 27 table of contents false detection of vulnerabilities, viruses or security breaches or false identification of spam or spyware could adversely affect our business. our fortiguard security subscription services may falsely detect, report and act on viruses or other threats that do not actually exist. this risk is heightened by the inclusion of a heuristics feature in our products, which attempts to identify viruses and other threats not based on any known signatures but based on characteristics or anomalies that may indicate that a particular item is a threat. when our end-customers enable the heuristics feature in our products, the risk of falsely identifying viruses and other threats significantly increases. these false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. also, our fortiguard security subscription services may falsely identify emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs, or alternatively fail to properly identify unwanted emails or programs, particularly as spam emails or spyware are often designed to circumvent anti-spam or spyware products. parties whose emails or programs are blocked by our products may seek redress against us for labeling them as spammers or spyware, or for interfering with their business. in addition, false identification of emails or programs as unwanted spam or potentially unwanted programs may reduce the adoption of our products. if our system restricts important files or applications based on falsely identifying them as malware or some other item that should be restricted, this could adversely affect end-customers' systems and cause material system failures. in addition, our threat researchers periodically identify vulnerabilities in various third-party products, and, if these identifications are perceived to be incorrect or are in fact incorrect, this could harm our business. any such false identification or perceived false identification of important files, applications or vulnerabilities could result in negative publicity, loss of end-customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem and costly litigation. our ability to sell our products is dependent on the quality of our technical support services, and our failure to offer high-quality technical support services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. once our products are deployed within our end-customers' networks, our end-customers depend on our technical support services, as well as the support of our channel partners and other third parties, to resolve any issues relating to our products. if we, our channel partners or other third parties do not effectively assist our customers in planning, deploying and operational proficiency for our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell additional products and services to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. many large end-customers, and service provider or government organization end-customers, require higher levels of support than smaller end-customers because of their more complex deployments and more demanding environments and business models. if we, our channel partners or other third parties fail to meet the requirements of our larger end-customers, it may be more difficult to execute on our strategy to increase our penetration with large businesses, service providers and government organizations. our failure to maintain high-quality support services would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may subject us to litigation, reputational damage, loss of customers and additional costs. we could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. we are subject to taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, where a number of our subsidiaries are organized. our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control. these include: the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or withholding taxes; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; transfer pricing adjustments; an increase in non-deductible expenses for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense; tax costs related to intercompany realignments; tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our provision for income taxes for the period in which the settlement takes place; and 28 table of contents changes in accounting principles, court decisions, tax rulings, and interpretations of or changes to tax laws, and regulations by international, federal or local governmental authorities. we have open tax years that could be subject to the examination by the internal revenue service (the irs ) and other tax authorities. we currently have ongoing tax audits in the united kingdom, canada and several other foreign jurisdictions. the focus of all of these audits is the allocation of profit between our legal entities. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results. on june 7, 2019, the ninth circuit issued an opinion in altera corporation and subsidiaries vs. commissioner of internal revenue that reversed the tax court decision in favor of the irs. this ruling stated the irs rule that stock compensation must be included in cost sharing was valid. based on this decision, in second quarter of 2019, we recorded a reserve for uncertain tax positions for this potential tax liability. on february 10, 2020, the ninth circuit decision was appealed to the supreme court of the united states. we will continue to monitor and assess the impact as this case moves forward. we may undertake corporate operating restructurings or transfers of assets that involve our group of foreign country subsidiaries through which we do business abroad, in order to maximize the operational and tax efficiency of our group structure. if ineffectual, such restructurings or transfers could increase our income tax liabilities, and in turn, increase our global effective tax rate. moreover, our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner that we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. however, the tax authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, which could impact our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and operating results. significant judgment is required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. in the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. to forecast our global tax rate, we estimate our pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction and forecast our tax expense by jurisdiction. if the mix of profits and losses, our ability to use tax credits or effective tax rates in a given jurisdiction differs from our estimate, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, our actual tax rate may be subject to further uncertainty due to potential changes in u.s. and foreign tax rules. as a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. the taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carryforwards and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. consequently, tax authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. the organisation for economic co-operation and development (the oecd ), an international association comprised of 36 countries, including the united states, has issued and continues to issue guidelines and proposals that change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. due to our extensive international business activities, any changes in the taxation of such activities could increase our tax obligations in many countries and may increase our worldwide effective tax rate. 29 table of contents our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. in order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property, such as patents. for example, we closed our acquisitions of ensilo and cybersponse in the fourth quarter of 2019. for any possible future acquisitions, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition or financing the acquisition. for both our prior and future acquisitions, we may not be successful in effectively integrating the acquired business, product, technology or intellectual property and sales force into our existing business and operations. we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, intellectual property or products with our existing product lines, integrating reporting systems and procedures, and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. for example, we may experience difficulties integrating an acquired company's erp or crm systems, sales support and other processes and systems, with our current systems and processes. our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues with intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee or customer issues, and we may not accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition. in addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may be dilutive to revenue growth and earnings and may not result in any synergies or other benefits we had expected to achieve, which could result in impairment charges that could be substantial. we may have to pay cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any acquisition, each of which could affect our financial condition or the value of our capital stock and could result in dilution to our stockholders. acquisitions during a quarter may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations for that period or future periods compared to the results that we have previously forecasted or achieved. further, completing a potential acquisition and integrating acquired businesses, products, technologies or intellectual property could significantly divert management time and resources. our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. our products are very complex and, despite testing prior to their release, have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. product errors have affected the performance and effectiveness of our products and could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our end-customers' willingness to buy products from us, result in litigation and disputes with customers and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, cause us to lose significant end-customers, subject us to litigation, litigation costs and liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. as a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. the occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our products and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. the occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we generally have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims if exceptions apply or if the provisions are deemed unenforceable, and in some circumstances we may be required to indemnify a customer in full, without limitation, for certain liabilities, including liabilities that are not contractually limited. the sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. we maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us, if at all, and in some instances may subject us to potential liability that is not contractually limited. in addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management's time and other resources. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, typhoon, floods, virus outbreaks and other broad health-related challenges and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as civil unrest, labor disruption, critical infrastructure attack and terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, power outage, flood, viral outbreak or other catastrophic event, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. our corporate headquarters are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity, and our research and development and data center in burnaby, canada, from which we deliver to customers our fortiguard security subscription updates, is subject to the risk of flooding and is also in a region known for seismic activity. any earthquake in the bay area or burnaby, or 30 table of contents flooding in burnaby, could materially negatively impact our ability to provide products and services, such as forticare support and fortiguard subscription services and could otherwise materially negatively impact our business. in addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors, suppliers or logistics providers' ability to perform services, such as obtaining product components and manufacturing products, or performing or assisting with shipments, on a timely basis, as well as our customers' ability to order from us and our employees' ability to perform their duties. for example, a typhoon in taiwan could materially negatively impact our ability to ship products and could result in delays in billings and revenues, and the coronavirus outbreak could materially negatively impact our ability to manufacture and ship products. in the event our or our service providers' information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in our missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. in addition, regional instability, civil unrest, labor disruptions, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers, or of the economy as a whole. given our typical concentration of sales at the end of each quarter, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. to the extent that any of the above results in security risks to our customers, delays or cancellations of customer orders, the delay of the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products or interruption or downtime of our services, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. risks related to our industry the network security market is rapidly evolving and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing end-customer needs, our competitive position and prospects may be harmed. the network security market is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. moreover, many of our end-customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly complex networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. in addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, while minimizing the impact on network performance. additionally, some of our new products and enhancements may require us to develop new hardware architectures and asics that involve complex, expensive and time-consuming research and development processes. for example, we enter into development agreements with third parties. if our contract development projects are not successfully completed, or are not completed in a timely fashion, our product development could be delayed and our business generally could suffer. costs for contract development can be substantial and our profitability may be harmed if we are unable to recover these costs. although the market expects rapid introduction of new products or product enhancements to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release and availability is uncertain and there can be long time periods between releases and availability of new products. we have in the past and may in the future experience unanticipated delays in the availability of new products and services and fail to meet previously announced timetables for such availability. if we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our end-customers by developing and releasing and making available on a timely basis new products and services or enhancements that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed. moreover, business models based on saas, either hosted or cloud-based services, have become increasingly in-demand by our end-customers and adopted by other providers, including our competitors. while we have introduced additional cloud-based products and services and will continue to do so, most of our platform is currently deployed on premise, and therefore, if customers demand that our platform be provided through a saas business model, we would be required to make additional investments in our infrastructure and personnel to be able to more fully provide our platform through a saas model in order to maintain the competitiveness of our platform. such investments may involve expanding our data centers, servers and networks, and increasing our technical operations and engineering teams. these risks are compounded by the uncertainty concerning the future viability of saas business models and the future demand for such models by customers. additionally, if we are unable to meet the demand to provide our services through a saas model, we may lose customers to competitors. our uniform resource locator ( url ) database for our web filtering service may fail to keep pace with the rapid growth of urls and may not categorize websites in accordance with our end-customers ' expectations. the success of our web filtering service depends on the breadth and accuracy of our url database. although our url database currently catalogs millions of unique urls, it contains only a portion of the urls for all of the websites that are 31 table of contents available on the internet. in addition, the total number of urls and software applications is growing rapidly, and we expect this rapid growth to continue in the future. accordingly, we must identify and categorize content for our security risk categories at an extremely rapid rate. our database and technologies may not be able to keep pace with the growth in the number of websites, especially the growing amount of content utilizing foreign languages and the increasing sophistication of malicious code and the delivery mechanisms associated with spyware, phishing and other hazards associated with the internet. further, the ongoing evolution of the internet and computing environments will require us to continually improve the functionality, features and reliability of our web filtering function. any failure of our databases to keep pace with the rapid growth and technological change of the internet could impair the market acceptance of our products, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our web filtering service may not be successful in accurately categorizing internet and application content to meet our end-customers' expectations. we rely upon a combination of automated filtering technology and human review to categorize websites and software applications in our proprietary databases. our end-customers may not agree with our determinations that particular urls should be included or not included in specific categories of our databases. in addition, it is possible that our filtering processes may place material that is objectionable or that presents a security risk in categories that are generally unrestricted by our customers' internet and computer access policies, which could result in such material not being blocked from the network. conversely, we may miscategorize websites such that access is denied to websites containing information that is important or valuable to our customers. any miscategorization could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our reputation. any failure to effectively categorize and filter websites according to our end-customers' and channel partners' expectations could impair the growth of our business. if our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. we spend substantial amounts of time and money to acquire and develop internally new products and enhanced versions of our existing products in order to incorporate additional features, improved functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers' rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. when we develop a new product or an enhanced version of an existing product, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. our new products or product enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: delays in releasing our new products or enhancements to the market; failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; failure to have the appropriate research and development expertise and focus to make our top strategic fabric products successful; failure of our sales force and partners to focus on selling new products; inability to interoperate effectively with the networks or applications of our prospective end-customers; inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; actual or perceived defects, vulnerabilities, errors or failures; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay it purchases; changes to the regulatory requirements around security; and 32 table of contents reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. demand for our products may be limited by market perception that individual products from one vendor that provide multiple layers of security protection in one product are inferior to point solution network security solutions from multiple vendors. sales of many of our products depend on increased demand for incorporating broad security functionality into one appliance. if the market for these products fails to grow as we anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. target customers may view all-in-one network security solutions as inferior to security solutions from multiple vendors because of, among other things, their perception that such products of ours provide security functions from only a single vendor and do not allow users to choose best-of-breed defenses from among the wide range of dedicated security applications available. target customers might also perceive that, by combining multiple security functions into a single platform, our solutions create a single point of failure in their networks, which means that an error, vulnerability or failure of our product may place the entire network at risk. in addition, the market perception that all-in-one solutions may be suitable only for small and medium-sized businesses because such solution lacks the performance capabilities and functionality of other solutions may harm our sales to large businesses, service provider and government organization end-customers. if the foregoing concerns and perceptions become prevalent, even if there is no factual basis for these concerns and perceptions, or if other issues arise with our market in general, demand for multi-security functionality products could be severely limited, which would limit our growth and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, a successful and publicized targeted attack against us, exposing a single point of failure, could significantly increase these concerns and perceptions and may harm our business and results of operations. we face intense competition in our market and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. the market for network security products is intensely competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. we face many competitors across the different cybersecurity markets. our competitors include companies such as barracuda , check point , cisco , crowdstrike , f5 networks , fireeye , forcepoint , imperva , juniper , mcafee , palo alto networks , proofpoint , sonicwall , sophos , trend micro and zscaler . many of our existing and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages such as: greater name recognition and longer operating histories; larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; broader distribution and established relationships with distribution partners and end-customers; access to larger customer bases; greater customer support resources; greater resources to make acquisitions; lower labor and development costs; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings, and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages customers from purchasing our products. these larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus, and are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets. therefore, these competitors will not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize 33 table of contents in providing protection from a single type of security threat are often able to deliver these specialized security products to the market more quickly than we can. conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. our competitors and potential competitors may also be able to develop products or services, and leverage new business models, that are equal or superior to ours, achieve greater market acceptance of their products and services, and increase sales by utilizing different distribution channels than we do. for example, certain of our competitors are focusing on delivering security services from the cloud. in addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources, and new competitors may arise pursuant to acquisitions of network security companies or divisions. as a result of such acquisitions, competition in our market may continue to increase and our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily, or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. in addition, our competitors may bundle products and services competitive with ours with other products and services. customers may accept these bundled products and services rather than separately purchasing our products and services. as our customers refresh the security products bought in prior years, they may seek to consolidate vendors, which may result in current customers choosing to purchase products from our competitors on an ongoing basis. due to budget constraints or economic downturns, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing network security infrastructure from competitors than to replace it with our solutions. these competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. if functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our appliances to their network, which would have an adverse effect on our business. large, well-established providers of networking equipment such as cisco, f5 networks and juniper offer, and may continue to introduce, network security features that compete with our products, either in standalone security products or as additional features in their network infrastructure products. the inclusion of, or the announcement of an intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our security solutions in networking products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. furthermore, even if the functionality offered by network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor such as us. many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of networking products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from other vendors such as us. in addition, an organization's existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only network security products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. if organizations are reluctant to add additional network infrastructure from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to copy or use aspects of our products without compensating us. we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. valid patents may not issue from our pending applications, and the claims eventually allowed on any patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or products. any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any rights granted under these patents may not actually provide adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages to us. patent applications in the united states are typically not published until at least 18 months after filing, or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file for patent protection. additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. in addition, recent changes to the patent laws in the united states may bring into question the validity of certain software patents and may make it more difficult and costly to prosecute patent applications. as a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or effectively enforce our issued patents. 34 table of contents despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. however, we cannot guarantee that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology. policing unauthorized use of our technology or products is difficult. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the united states. from time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights (including aspects of our software and products protected other than by patent rights), we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. our products contain third-party open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under open source licenses, including the gnu public license, the gnu lesser public license, the bsd license, the apache license, the mit x license and the mozilla public license. from time to time, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants' intellectual property rights. we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as, for example, open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by u.s. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that, for example, could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to make our proprietary code generally available in source code form, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which requirements could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other litigation matters could harm our business. patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the network security industry. third parties are currently asserting, have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us. third parties have also asserted such claims against our end-customers or channel partners whom we may indemnify against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, infringement claims may increase. any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. in addition, litigation may involve patent holding companies, non-practicing entities or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. although third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable, and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. in addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense, and may ultimately not be successful. furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant's patents or 35 table of contents copyrights), royalties or other fees. any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we are subject to lawsuits claiming patent infringement. we are also subject to other litigation in addition to patent infringement claims, such as employment-related litigation and disputes, as well as general commercial litigation, and could become subject to other forms of litigation and disputes, including stockholder litigation. if we are unsuccessful in defending any such claims, our operating results and financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. for example, we may be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling certain of our products. litigation, with or without merit, could negatively impact our business, reputation and sales in a material fashion. we have several ongoing patent lawsuits, certain companies have sent us demand letters proposing that we license certain of their patents, and organizations have sent letters demanding that we provide indemnification for patent claims. as two examples of the ongoing patent lawsuits against us, one such patent lawsuit by british telecommunications plc was filed in federal court in delaware in july 2018, and a second such lawsuit by finjan, inc. was filed in federal court in california in october 2018, and additional patent lawsuits have been filed against us since. given this and the proliferation of lawsuits in our industry and other similar industries by both non-practicing entities and operating entities, and recent non-practicing entity and operating entity patent litigation against other companies in the security space, we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. the cost to defend such lawsuits and any settlement payment or adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we rely on the availability of third-party licenses. many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. licensors may claim we owe them additional license fees for past and future use of their software and other intellectual property or that we cannot utilize such software or intellectual property in our products going forward. there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. the inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms or for reasonable pricing, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and may result in significant license fees and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. we also rely on technologies licensed from third parties in order to operate functions of our business. if any of these third parties allege that we have not properly paid for such licenses or that we have improperly used the technologies under such licenses, we may need to pay additional fees or obtain new licenses, and such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all or may be costly. in any such case, or if we were required to redesign our internal operations to function with new technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. risks related to ownership of our common stock as a public company, we are subject to compliance initiatives that will require substantial time from our management and result in significantly increased costs that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sarbanes-oxley ), dodd-frank and other rules implemented by the sec and the nasdaq stock market impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. these requirements, as well as proposed corporate governance laws and regulations under consideration, may further increase our compliance costs. if compliance with these various legal and regulatory requirements diverts our management's attention from other business concerns, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. sarbanes-oxley requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually, and of our disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. although our most recent assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that, as of december 31, 2019, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in 2020 or future periods. we may incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our operating results. 36 table of contents in september 2018, california enacted a law that requires publicly held companies headquartered in california to have at least one female director by the end of 2019 and at least three by the end of 2021, depending on the size of the board. the law would impose financial penalties for failure to comply. though we are currently in compliance with the requirements of the law for 2019, we may incur costs associated with complying with the law in future years, including costs associated with expanding our board of directors or identifying qualified candidates for appointment to our board of directors, or financial penalties or harm to our brand and reputation if we are unable to do so. changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices, and varying interpretations of existing or new accounting pronouncements, such as changes to standards related to revenue recognition (which became effective for us on january 1, 2018) and accounting for leases (which became effective for us on january 1, 2019), as well as the significant costs incurred or that may be incurred to adopt and to comply with these new pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. if we do not ensure that our systems and processes are aligned with the new standards, we could encounter difficulties generating quarterly and annual financial statements in a timely manner, which could have an adverse effect on our business, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and compliance with internal control requirements. the revenue and lease standards are principles based and interpretation of those principles may vary from company to company based on their unique circumstances. management will continue to make judgments and assumptions based on our interpretation of the new standard. it is possible that interpretation, industry practice and guidance may evolve as we work toward implementing the new revenue recognition standard. if our circumstances change or if actual circumstances differ from our assumptions, our operating result may be adversely affected and could fall below our publicly announced guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock. further, equity investments are now required to be measured at fair value (with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net income), which may increase the volatility of our earnings. if securities or industry analysts stop publishing research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. if we do not maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this periodic report, news about us and our financial results, news about our competitors and their results, and other factors such as rumors or fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. for example, during 2019, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $66.91 to $109.53 per share. furthermore, stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. these fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. in the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. we may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. 37 table of contents share repurchases under our repurchase program (the repurchase program ) could increase the volatility of the trading price of our common stock, could diminish our cash reserves, could occur at non-optimal prices and may not result in the most effective use of our capital. in november 2019, our board of directors approved a $1.0 billion increase in the authorized stock repurchase under the repurchase program and extended the term of the repurchase program to february 28, 2021, bringing the aggregate amount authorized to be repurchased $2.5 billion. as of december 31, 2019, $1.6 billion remained available for future share repurchases under the repurchase program. share repurchases under the repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock, increase stock price volatility and diminish our cash reserves. in addition, an announcement of the reduction, suspension or termination of the repurchase program could result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. moreover, our stock price could decline, resulting in repurchases made at non-optimal prices. our failure to repurchase our stock at optimal prices may be perceived by investors as an inefficient use of our cash and cash equivalents, which could result in litigation that may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, while our board of directors carefully considers various alternative uses of our cash and cash equivalents in determining whether to authorize stock repurchases, there can be no assurance that the decision by our board of directors to repurchase stock would result in the most effective uses of our cash and cash equivalents, and there may be alternative uses of our cash and cash equivalents that would be more effective, such as investing in growing our business organically or through acquisitions. anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. our corporate governance documents include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; providing that certain litigation matters may only be brought against us in state or federal courts in the state of delaware; controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; and providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. however, these anti-takeover provisions will not have the effect of preventing activist stockholders from seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as nominating board candidates and requesting that we pursue strategic combinations or other transactions. these actions could disrupt our operations, be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and employees. in addition, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result 38 table of contents of activist stockholder actions could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, as well as other negative business consequences. actions of an activist stockholder may also cause fluctuations in our stock price based on speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect our business. further, we may incur significant expenses in retaining professionals to advise and assist us on activist stockholder matters, including legal, financial, communications advisors and solicitation experts, which may negatively impact our future financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate fluctuation risk the primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve principal, provide liquidity and maximize income without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities we invest in are subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and investments in a variety of securities, including corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit and term deposits, commercial paper, money market funds, and u.s. government and agency securities. the risk 60 table of contents associated with fluctuating interest rates is limited to our investment portfolio. a 10% decrease in interest rates in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 would have resulted in an insignificant decrease in our interest income in each of these periods. foreign currency exchange risk our sales contracts are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and therefore substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency translation risk. however, a substantial portion of our operating expenses incurred outside the united states are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the canadian dollar ( cad ), the brazilian real ( brl ), the euro ( eur ) and the british pound ( gbp ). to help protect against significant fluctuations in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we engage in foreign currency risk management activities to minimize the impact of balance sheet items denominated in cad. we do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. all of the derivative instruments are with high quality financial institutions and we monitor the credit worthiness of these parties. these contracts typically have a maturity of one month and settle on the last day of each month. we record changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts related to balance sheet accounts in other income (expense) net in the consolidated statements of income. we recognized an expense of $4.7 million in 2019 due to foreign currency transaction losses. our use of forward exchange contracts is intended to reduce, but not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. our forward exchange contracts are relatively short-term in nature and are focused on the cad. long-term material changes in the value of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, such as the eur, brl and gbp, could adversely impact our operating expenses in the future. we assessed the risk of loss in fair values from the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates. for foreign currency exchange rate risk, a 10% increase or decrease of foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar with all other variables held constant would have resulted in a $5.6 million change in the value of our foreign currency cash balances as of december 31, 2019. inflation risk our monetary assets, consisting primarily of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are not affected significantly by inflation because they are predominantly short-term. we believe the impact of inflation on replacement costs of equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements will not materially affect our operations. the rate of inflation, however, affects our cost of revenue and expenses, such as those for employee compensation, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of products and services offered by us. 61 table of contents