risk factors 9 risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world. the company's business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, central and south america, and asia. these sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions. with continuing challenging and increasingly volatile economic conditions in the u.s., western europe and elsewhere, there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on demand for the company's products as well as its financial condition and results of operations. the company could also be negatively impacted by economic crises in specific countries or regions, including the deterioration in the creditworthiness of, or a default by, the issuers of sovereign debt. such events could negatively impact the company's overall liquidity and/or create significant credit risks relative to its local customers and depository institutions. consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact the company's business. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. the company's principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. the rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices, and delivering products with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers to import products directly from foreign sources and 9 table of contents to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with the company's products. the combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company's principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. the intense competition in the retail sector combined with the overall economic environment may result in a number of retailers experiencing financial difficulty or failing in the future. in particular, a failure by one of the company's large retail customers would adversely impact the company's sales and operating cash flows. as a result of these factors, the company may experience a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. if the company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the company's ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted. the company's long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create demand. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company's products. the company's strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. there are, nevertheless, numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not deliver expected growth in sales or operating income. if the company does not continue to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands, its operating results may suffer. the company's ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that the company's retailer and other customers will need the company's products to meet consumer demand. consumer-meaningful brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to continue to increase its expenditures for advertising and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the increased investment may not deliver the anticipated results. price increases in raw materials and sourced products could harm the company's financial results. the company purchases raw materials, including resin, principally polyethylene and polypropylene, corrugate, steel, gold, zinc, brass and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures. the company attempts to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts and sales price adjustments. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. also, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. raw material and sourced product price increases may more than offset the company's productivity gains and price increases and adversely impact the company's financial results. the company's plans to continue to improve productivity and reduce complexity and costs may not be successful, which would adversely affect its ability to compete. the company's success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline or redeploy nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building. in october 2011, the company announced project renewal, a global initiative designed to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in the company's most significant growth platforms. in june 2010, the company announced its european transformation plan, a program to simplify and centralize its european business and leverage the benefits of scale and to contribute to a more efficient and cost-effective implementation of an enterprise resource planning program. the company runs the risk that these and similar initiatives may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated. it is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future. if the company is unable to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses, the company's future growth could be adversely impacted. although the company is increasingly emphasizing internal growth rather than growth by acquisition, the company's ability to 10 table of contents continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully, including obtaining anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, remain important factors in the company's future growth. furthermore, the company's ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the company's financial position and access to credit markets. in addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the company's borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the company's future access to capital. circumstances associated with divestitures could adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. the company continues to evaluate the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products and may decide to sell or discontinue a business based on such an evaluation. a decision to divest or discontinue a business may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. in addition, prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company's business; and the potential loss of key employees. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business. the company is subject to risks related to its international operations and sourcing model. international operations, especially in europe, but also in asia, central and south america, and canada, are important to the company's business, and the company's strategy emphasizes international growth. in addition, as the company sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in asia, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation; other currency fluctuations; tariffs; nationalization; exchange controls; labor inflation; interest rates; limitations on foreign investment in local business; and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. the company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in reliance on foreign sourcing. venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy effective january 1, 2010, and, accordingly, gains and losses resulting from the translation of the net assets (excluding nonmonetary assets) of operations in venezuela into u.s. dollars are recorded in earnings. see footnote 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. the inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect the company's ability to manufacture and market its products. the company purchases raw materials to be used in manufacturing its products. in addition, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. the company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its suppliers or sourcing partners. most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis; however, in limited cases where the company has supply contracts with fixed prices, the company may be required to purchase raw materials at above-market prices, which could adversely impact gross margins. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by the company's suppliers and/or sourcing partners or changes in the company's relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent the company from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. complications in connection with the company's current information system initiative may adversely impact its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 11 table of contents the company is in the process of replacing various business information systems worldwide with an enterprise resource planning system from sap. to date, the north american operations of substantially all of the company's 13 gbus have successfully gone live with their sap implementation efforts. these go-lives are the first major milestones in a multi-year implementation that will occur in several phases, primarily based on geographic region and segment. this activity involves the migration of multiple legacy systems and users to a common sap information platform. throughout this process, the company is changing the way it conducts business and employees' roles in processing and utilizing information. in addition, this conversion will impact certain interfaces with the company's customers and suppliers, resulting in changes to the manner in which the company takes orders, procures materials, schedules production, remits billings, makes payments and performs other business functions. based upon the complexity of this initiative, there is risk that the company will be unable to complete the implementation in accordance with its timeline and will incur additional costs. the implementation could result in operating inefficiencies, and the implementation could impact the company's ability to perform necessary business transactions, including its ability to supply products on a timely basis. the company's go-lives have been and will continue to be in a phased approach to reduce the risk of business disruption throughout the company's business units and regions. however, there can be no assurance that the risk of business disruption can be eliminated with the company's phased approach. all of these risks could adversely impact the company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company's assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company's sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, a material adverse change in the company's relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company's stock price. the company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, the company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. the company's businesses are subject to regulation in the u.s. and abroad. changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the company does business. this includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. accordingly, the company's ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal matters without significant liability could require the company to take significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the company's results. in addition, new regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis, significantly restrict the company's ability to sell certain products, or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. lastly, as a u.s.-based multi-national company, the company is also subject to tax regulations in the u.s. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. for example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the u.s. is not taxed in the u.s., provided those earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s. if these or other tax regulations should change, the company's financial results could be impacted. the resolution of the company's tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company's cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions outside the u.s. significant estimation and judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company's business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the company's financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the company's products arise in the ordinary course of the company's business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company's reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company's products. the company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although the company maintains product 12 table of contents liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. if the company is unable to access the capital markets to refinance its maturing debt, its borrowing costs could increase. as of december 31, 2011, the company had $367.5 million of debt that it will be required to refinance or repay within the next 12 months. it is possible that the company may seek to address its short-term obligations through the capital markets or other arrangements. however, access to the capital markets cannot be assured, and although the company believes that alternative arrangements will be available to refinance these obligations, such arrangements could result in an increase in the company's borrowing costs. a reduction in the company's credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's current senior debt credit ratings from moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's and fitch ratings are baa3, bbb- and bbb, respectively. its current short-term debt credit ratings from moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's and fitch ratings are p-3, a-3 and f-2, respectively. moody's, standard &amp; poor's and fitch have a stable outlook on their ratings. the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. a downgrade by moody's or standard &amp; poor's, which would reduce the company's senior debt below investment-grade, could increase the company's borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the company's financial results. the company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company's short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would limit, or eliminate entirely, the company's access to the commercial paper market. the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company's securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company's earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company's pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company's pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore the company's estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company's required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company's pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, the company's future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company's pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company's policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in rates and prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. interest rates interest rate risk is present with both fixed- and floating-rate debt. the company manages its interest rate exposure through its mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt and its conservative debt ratio target. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate the company's exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. excluding debt for which a fixed rate has been swapped for a floating rate, fixed-rate debt represented approximately 82.3% of the company's $2.18 billion of total debt as of december 31, 2011. foreign currency exchange rates the company is exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business since a portion of the company's sales, expenses and operating transactions is conducted on a global basis in various foreign currencies. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in the functional currency of the entity entering into the transaction, the company is exposed to transactional foreign currency exchange rate risk. the company's foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts as economic hedges for commercial transactions and to offset the future impact of gains and losses resulting from changes in the expected amount of functional currency cash flows to be received or paid upon settlement of the anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transactions. gains and losses related to the settlement of qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. the company also uses natural hedging techniques such as offsetting or netting like foreign currency flows and denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency. the company also realizes gains and losses recorded within shareholders' equity due to the translation of the financial statements from the functional currency of its subsidiaries to u.s. dollars. the company utilizes capital structures of foreign subsidiaries combined with forward contracts to minimize its exposure to foreign currency risk. the company may hedge portions of its net investments in foreign subsidiaries, including intercompany loans, with forward contracts and cross-currency hedges. gains and losses related to qualifying forward exchange contracts and cross-currency hedges, which are generally used to hedge intercompany loans and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). commodity prices the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel, stainless steel, aluminum and other metals, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. the company's resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene and polypropylene in roughly equal quantities. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. financial instruments in managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the company uses interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and cross-currency swaps. derivatives were recorded at fair value in the company's consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2011 as follows (in millions) : prepaid expenses and other $ 2.4 other assets $ 35.8 see footnote 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on derivatives. 45 table of contents value at risk the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and includes substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding equity-method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below represent the company's estimate of the maximum loss that could arise in one day. the amounts presented in the table are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the one day value-at-risk as of and for the year ended december 31, ( in millions, except percentages ): market risk (1) 2011 average december 31, 2011 2010 average december 31, 2010 confidence level interest rates $ 10.3 $ 10.6 $ 9.8 $ 11.5 95 % foreign exchange $ 11.8 $ 15.5 $ 12.2 $ 11.2 95 % (1) the company generally does not enter into material derivative contracts for commodities; therefore, commodity price risk is not shown because the amounts are not material. the 95% confidence interval signifies the company's degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company's favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. additionally, since the company operates globally, and therefore, among a broad basket of currencies, its foreign currency exposure is diversified. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. 46 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world. the company's business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, central and south america, and asia. these sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions. with continuing challenging and volatile economic conditions in the u.s., western europe and elsewhere, there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on demand for the company's products as well as its financial condition and results of operations. the company could also be negatively impacted by economic crises in specific countries or regions, including the deterioration in the creditworthiness of, or a default by, the issuers of sovereign debt. such events could negatively impact the company's overall liquidity and/or create significant credit risks relative to its local customers and depository institutions. consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact the company's business. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers and e-commerce companies. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. the company's principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. the rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices, and delivering products with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with the company's products. the combination of these market influences and retailer consolidation has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company's principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and consolidation. the intense competition in the retail and e-commerce sectors, combined with the overall economic environment, may result in a number of customers experiencing financial difficulty or failing in the future. in particular, a failure by one of the company's large customers would adversely impact the company's sales and operating cash flows. as a result of these factors, the company may experience a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. 9 table of contents the company's plans to continue to improve productivity and reduce complexity and costs may not be successful, which would adversely affect its ability to compete. the company's success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline or redeploy nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building. in october 2011, the company announced project renewal, a global initiative designed to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in the company's most significant growth platforms, and in october 2012, the company announced an expansion of project renewal, designed to further simplify and align the business around two key activities brand &amp; category development and market execution &amp; delivery. as part of the expanded program, the company's consumer and professional groups were eliminated and the company's nine global business units were streamlined into six business segments. in june 2010, the company announced its european transformation plan, a program to centralize its european business and leverage the benefits of scale and to facilitate a more efficient and cost-effective implementation of an enterprise resource planning program. the company runs the risk that these and similar initiatives may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated. in addition, these various initiatives require the company to implement a significant amount of organizational change which could divert management's attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, could cause disruptions in the company's day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on the company's financial results. it is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future. if the company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the company's ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted. the company's long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create demand. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company's products. the company's strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. there are, nevertheless, numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not deliver expected growth in sales or operating income. if the company does not continue to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands, its operating results may suffer. the company's ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that the company's retailer and other customers will need the company's products to meet consumer demand. consumer-meaningful brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to continue to increase its expenditures for advertising and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the increased investment may not deliver the anticipated results. price increases in raw materials and sourced products could harm the company's financial results. the company purchases raw materials, including resin, principally polyethylene and polypropylene, corrugate, steel, gold, zinc, brass and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures. the company attempts to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts and sales price adjustments. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. also, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. raw material and sourced product price increases may more than offset the company's productivity gains and price increases and adversely impact the company's financial results. if the company is unable to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses, the company's future growth could be adversely impacted. although the company is increasingly emphasizing internal growth rather than growth by acquisition, the company's ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully, including obtaining anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, remain important factors in the company's future growth. furthermore, the company's ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the company's financial position and access to credit markets. in addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the company's borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the company's future access to capital. 10 table of contents circumstances associated with divestitures and product lines exits could adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. the company continues to evaluate the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products and may decide to sell or discontinue a business or product based on such an evaluation. a decision to divest or discontinue a business or product may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. in addition, prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company's business; and the potential loss of key employees. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or exiting product lines. the company is subject to risks related to its international operations and sourcing model. international operations, especially in europe, but also in asia, central and south america, and canada, are important to the company's business, and the company's strategy emphasizes international growth. in addition, as the company sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in asia, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation; other currency fluctuations; tariffs; nationalization; exchange controls; labor inflation; interest rates; limitations on foreign investment in local business; and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. the company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in reliance on foreign sourcing. venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy effective january 1, 2010, and, accordingly, gains and losses resulting from the translation of the net assets (excluding nonmonetary assets) of operations in venezuela into u.s. dollars are recorded in earnings. in february 2013, the exchange rate for the venezuelan currency, bolivar fuerte, declined approximately 15%, which will adversely impact the company's financial results. the company is unable to predict with certainty whether future devaluations will occur because of the economic uncertainty in venezuela; however, future devaluations would adversely impact the company's future financial results. see footnote 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further information. the inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect the company's ability to manufacture and market its products. the company purchases raw materials to be used in manufacturing its products. in addition, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. the company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its suppliers or sourcing partners. most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis; however, in limited cases where the company has supply contracts with fixed prices, the company may be required to purchase raw materials at above-market prices, which could adversely impact gross margins. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. in particular, the company's baby &amp; parenting business has a single source of supply for many of its products. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by the company's suppliers and/or sourcing partners or changes in the company's relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent the company from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. complications in connection with the company's current information system initiative may adversely impact its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the company is in the process of replacing various business information systems worldwide with an enterprise resource planning system from sap. through december 31, 2012, the north american and european operations of substantially all of the company's six segments have successfully gone live with their sap implementation efforts. the company's asia pacific and latin american operations have yet to go live on sap. this activity involves the migration of multiple legacy systems and users to a common sap information platform. throughout this process, the company is changing the way it conducts business and employees' roles in 11 table of contents processing and utilizing information. in addition, this conversion will impact certain interfaces with the company's customers and suppliers, resulting in changes to the manner in which the company takes orders, procures materials, schedules production, remits billings, makes payments and performs other business functions. based upon the complexity of this initiative, there is risk that the company will be unable to complete the implementation in accordance with its timeline and will incur additional costs. the implementation could result in operating inefficiencies, and the implementation could impact the company's ability to perform necessary business transactions, including its ability to supply products on a timely basis. the company's go-lives have been and will continue to be in a phased approach to reduce the risk of business disruption throughout the company's business units and regions. however, there can be no assurance that the risk of business disruption can be eliminated with the company's phased approach. all of these risks could adversely impact the company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company's assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company's sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, a material adverse change in the company's relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company's stock price. the company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, the company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. the company's businesses are subject to regulation in the u.s. and abroad. changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the company does business. this includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. accordingly, the company's ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal matters without significant liability could require the company to take significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the company's results. in addition, new regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis, significantly restrict the company's ability to sell certain products, or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. for example, the united states consumer product safety commission continues to advocate for more strict design standards for window blinds that if implemented, would require the company to redesign all window blinds sold in the u.s. for certain products, redesign may not be possible or practical, and as a result, the company would lose revenues from the sales of such products. as a u.s.-based multinational company, the company is also subject to tax regulations in the u.s. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. for example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the u.s. is not taxed in the u.s., provided those earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s. if these or other tax regulations should change, the company's financial results could be impacted. the resolution of the company's tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company's cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions outside the u.s. significant estimation and judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company's business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the company's financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the company's products arise in the ordinary course of the company's business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company's reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company's products. the company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention or could be excluded under 12 table of contents the terms of the policy. if the company is unable to access the capital markets to refinance its maturing debt, its borrowing costs could increase. as of december 31, 2012, the company had $211.9 million of debt that it will be required to refinance or repay within the next 12 months. it is possible that the company may seek to address its short-term obligations through the capital markets or other arrangements. however, access to the capital markets cannot be assured, and although the company believes that alternative arrangements will be available to refinance these obligations, such arrangements could result in an increase in the company's borrowing costs. a reduction in the company's credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's current senior debt credit ratings from moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's and fitch ratings are baa3, bbb- and bbb, respectively. its current short-term debt credit ratings from moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's and fitch ratings are p-3, a-3 and f-2, respectively. moody's, standard &amp; poor's and fitch have a stable outlook on their ratings. the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. a downgrade by moody's or standard &amp; poor's, which would reduce the company's senior debt below investment-grade, could increase the company's borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the company's financial results. the company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company's short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would limit, or eliminate entirely, the company's access to the commercial paper market. the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company's securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company's earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company's pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company's pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore the company's estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company's required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company's pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, the company's future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company's pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company's policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in rates and prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. interest rates interest rate risk is present with both fixed- and floating-rate debt. the company manages its interest rate exposure through its mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt and its conservative debt ratio target. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate the company's exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate, based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. excluding debt for which a fixed rate has been swapped for a floating rate, fixed-rate debt represented approximately 48.3% of the company's $1.92 billion of total debt as of december 31, 2012. foreign currency exchange rates the company is exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business since a portion of the company's sales, expenses and operating transactions is conducted on a global basis in various foreign currencies. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in the functional currency of the entity entering into the transaction, the company is exposed to transactional foreign currency exchange rate risk. the company's foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts as economic hedges for commercial transactions and to offset the future impact of gains and losses resulting from changes in the expected amount of functional currency cash flows to be received or paid upon settlement of the anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transactions. gains and losses related to the settlement of qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. the company also uses natural hedging techniques such as offsetting or netting like foreign currency flows and denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency. the company also realizes gains and losses recorded within shareholders' equity due to the translation of the financial statements from the functional currency of its subsidiaries to u.s. dollars. the company utilizes capital structures of foreign subsidiaries combined with forward contracts to minimize its exposure to foreign currency risk. the company may hedge portions of its net investments in foreign subsidiaries, including intercompany loans, with forward contracts and cross-currency hedges. gains and losses related to qualifying forward exchange contracts and cross-currency hedges, which are generally used to hedge intercompany loans and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). 47 table of contents commodity prices the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel, stainless steel, aluminum and other metals, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. the company's resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene and polypropylene in roughly equal quantities. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. financial instruments in managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the company uses interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and cross-currency swaps. derivatives were recorded at fair value in the company's consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2012 as follows (in millions) : prepaid expenses and other $ 0.5 other assets $ 38.9 other accrued liabilities $ 1.3 other noncurrent liabilities $ 7.2 see footnote 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on derivatives. value at risk the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and includes substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding cost and equity method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below represent the company's estimate of the maximum loss that could arise in one day. the amounts presented in the table are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the one-day value-at-risk as of and for the year ended december 31, ( in millions, except percentages ): market risk (1) 2012 average december 31, 2012 2011 average december 31, 2011 confidence level interest rates $ 6.6 $ 2.9 $ 10.3 $ 10.6 95 % foreign exchange $ 9.7 $ 6.0 $ 11.8 $ 15.5 95 % (1) the company generally does not enter into material derivative contracts for commodities; therefore, commodity price risk is not shown because the amounts are not material. the year-over-year decline in value-at-risk for interest rates is primarily due to the company swapping a fixed rate for a short-term floating rate for $500 million of the company's medium-term notes due 2020, because the short-term rate has less risk compared to the longer-term rate and the shorter-term rate has less historical volatility. the year-over-year decline in value-at-risk for foreign exchange is due to generally lower foreign currency positions at december 31, 2012 compared to december 31, 2011 and lower exchange rate volatility in late 2012 compared to late 2011. the 95% confidence interval signifies the company's degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company's favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. additionally, since the company operates globally, and therefore, among a broad basket of currencies, its foreign currency exposure is diversified. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. 48 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world. the company's business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, central and south america, and asia. these sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, 9 table of contents are affected by general economic conditions. with continuing challenging economic conditions in the u.s., western europe and elsewhere, there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on demand for the company's products, as well as its financial condition and results of operations. the company could also be negatively impacted by economic crises in specific countries or regions, including the deterioration in the creditworthiness of, or a default by, the issuers of sovereign debt. such events could negatively impact the company's overall liquidity and/or create significant credit risks relative to its local customers and depository institutions. consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of these factors could adversely impact the company's business. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers and e-commerce companies. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. the company's principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. the dominant share of the market represented by these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, has contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products, requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices, and requiring product delivery with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands, typically at lower prices, that compete with the company's products. the combination of these market influences and retailer consolidation has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company's principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and consolidation with other customers. the intense competition in the retail and e-commerce sectors, combined with the overall economic environment, may result in a number of customers experiencing financial difficulty, or failing in the future. in particular, a loss of, or a failure by, one of the company's large customers would adversely impact the company's sales and operating cash flows. to address these challenges, the company must be able to respond to competitive factors, and the failure to respond effectively could result in a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. the company's plans to continue to improve productivity and reduce complexity and costs may not be successful, which would adversely affect its ability to compete. the company's success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline or redeploy nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building. the company is currently in the process of implementing project renewal, a global initiative designed to reduce the complexity of the organization, increase investment in the company's most significant growth platforms and align the business around two key activities - brand &amp; category development and market execution &amp; delivery. project renewal may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not result in, in full or in part, the positive effects anticipated. in addition, such initiatives require the company to implement a significant amount of organizational change, which could have a negative impact on employee engagement, divert management's attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, impact the company's ability to retain key employees, cause disruptions in the company's day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on the company's financial results. it is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future. if the company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the company's ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted. the company's strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. its long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products and line extensions that create demand. new product development and commercialization efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. these risks include the considerable costs involved, such as development and commercialization, product development or launch delays, and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance or growth in sales or operating income. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative 10 table of contents new products that compete with the company's products. in addition, sales generated by new products or line extensions could cause a decline in sales of the company's existing products. if new product development and commercialization efforts are not successful, the company's financial results could be adversely affected. if the company does not continue to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands, its operating results may suffer. the company's ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that the company's retailer and other customers will need the company's products to meet consumer demand. consumer-meaningful brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to continue to increase its expenditures for advertising and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the initiatives may not deliver the anticipated results and the results of such initiatives may not cover the costs of the increased investment. price increases in raw materials and sourced products could harm the company's financial results. the company purchases raw materials, including resin, principally polyethylene and polypropylene, corrugate, steel, gold, zinc, brass and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures. the company's success is dependent, in part, on its continued ability to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts, sales price adjustments and certain derivative instruments, while maintaining and improving margins and market share. also, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. raw material and sourced product price increases may more than offset the company's productivity gains and price increases and adversely impact the company's financial results. if the company is unable to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses, the company's future growth and profitability could be adversely impacted. the company's ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully remain important factors in the company's future growth. the company's ability to successfully integrate any acquired business is dependent upon its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, integrate and manage product lines that have been acquired, obtain anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, assume unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized or known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, and manage unanticipated demands on the company's management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. furthermore, the company's ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the company's financial position and access to credit markets. in addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the company's borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the company's future access to capital. the company may not successfully manage these or other risks it may encounter in acquiring a business or product line, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. circumstances associated with divestitures and product line exits could adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. the company continues to evaluate the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products and may decide to sell or discontinue a business or product based on such an evaluation. a decision to divest or discontinue a business or product may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. in addition, prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company's business; and the potential loss of key employees. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or exiting product lines, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. 11 table of contents the company is subject to risks related to its international operations and sourcing model. international operations are important to the company's business, and the company's strategy emphasizes international growth. in addition, as the company sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in asia, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation; other currency fluctuations; tariffs; nationalization; exchange controls; labor inflation; interest rates; limitations on foreign investment in local business; compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside the united states, such as the foreign corrupt practices act; and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. the company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in reliance on foreign sourcing. venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy effective january 1, 2010, and, accordingly, gains and losses resulting from the translation of the net assets (excluding nonmonetary assets) of operations in venezuela into u.s. dollars are recorded in earnings. in february 2013, the exchange rate for the venezuelan currency, bolivar fuerte, declined approximately 15%, which adversely impacted the company's financial results. the company is unable to predict with certainty whether future devaluations will occur because of the economic uncertainty in venezuela. the future results of the company's venezuelan operations will be affected by many factors, including actions by the venezuelan government such as further currency devaluations, profit margin or price controls or changes in import controls, economic conditions in venezuela such as inflation and consumer spending, labor relations, and the availability of raw materials, utilities and energy. the company's venezuelan operations contribute a significant portion of the sales and operating income of the company's latin america region. as a result, any disruption of the company's venezuelan operations or of the company's ability to pay suppliers or repatriate funds from venezuela could have a material adverse impact on the future performance of the company's latin america region and could adversely affect the company's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. see footnote 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further information. the inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect the company's ability to manufacture and market its products. the company purchases raw materials to be used in manufacturing its products. in addition, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. the company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its suppliers or sourcing partners. most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis; however, in limited cases where the company has supply contracts with fixed prices, the company may be required to purchase raw materials at above-market prices, which could adversely impact gross margins. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. in particular, the company's baby &amp; parenting business has a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of baby &amp; parenting's sales and which owns the intellectual property for many of those products. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by the company's suppliers and/or sourcing partners or changes in the company's relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent the company from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to manufacture and market its products, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. 12 table of contents a failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on the company's business or reputation. the company relies extensively on information technology (it) systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting business. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: ordering and managing materials from suppliers; converting materials to finished products; shipping products to customers; marketing and selling products to consumers; collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and personal data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processes necessary to manage the company's business. increased it security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the company's it systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the company's data. if the it systems, networks or service providers relied upon fail to function properly, or if the company suffers a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations and reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely impact the company's results of operations and/or financial condition. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company's assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company's sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, a material adverse change in the company's relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company's stock price. the company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, the company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. the company's businesses are subject to regulation in the u.s. and abroad. changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the company does business. this includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. accordingly, the company's ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal matters without significant liability could require the company to record significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the company's results. in addition, new regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis, significantly restrict the company's ability to sell certain products, or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. for example, the united states consumer product safety commission and health canada are advocating for more strict design standards for window blinds that if implemented, would require the company to redesign all window blinds sold in the u.s. and canada. for certain products, redesign may not be possible or practical, and as a result, the company would lose revenues from the sales of such products. as a u.s.-based multinational company, the company is also subject to tax regulations in the u.s. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. for example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the u.s. is not taxed in the u.s., provided those earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s. if these or other tax regulations should change, the company's financial results could be impacted. 13 table of contents the company may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. the company's success at implementing project renewal and the growth game plan and its future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. the company's success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the company can retain its key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. the resolution of the company's tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company's cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions outside the u.s. significant estimation and judgment are required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company's business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by various worldwide tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the company's financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the company's products arise in the ordinary course of the company's business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company's reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company's products. the company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. for example, in february 2014, the company initiated a voluntary recall on the harness buckles used on certain graco-branded convertible and harnessed booster car seats due to the potential that over time, food and dried liquid may make some harness buckles progressively more difficult to open or become stuck in the latched position. the recall involves providing customers with a replacement buckle. the company does not believe that a recall on similar buckles used in infant car seats is appropriate. however, it is possible that the regulatory agency with authority over the matter, the national highway traffic safety administration, may ultimately disagree and attempt to force such a recall. if the recall is expanded to include infant car seats, it could have an adverse impact on the results of operations of the company. although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention, may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. a reduction in the company's credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's current senior debt credit ratings from moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's and fitch ratings are baa3, bbb- and bbb, respectively. its current short-term debt credit ratings from moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's and fitch ratings are p-3, a-3 and f-2, respectively. moody's has a stable outlook on its ratings, and fitch and standard &amp; poor's have positive outlooks on their ratings. the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. a downgrade by moody's or standard &amp; poor's, which would reduce the company's senior debt below investment-grade, could increase the company's borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the company's financial results. the company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company's short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would limit, or eliminate entirely, the company's access to the commercial paper market. the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company's securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 14 table of contents the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company's earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company's pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company's pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore the company's estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company's required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company's pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, the company's future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company's pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. actions by the company's counterparty to the accelerated share repurchase plan may affect the market for the company's common stock. in connection with the company's accelerated share repurchase plan, the company expects that its counterparty will purchase shares (or otherwise acquire long positions in shares) of company common stock in the open market until it has acquired (or otherwise has long positions in) the number of shares the company has agreed to purchase under the accelerated share repurchase plan. the company expects that these acquisitions (and other transactions) will include covering purchases to close out stock borrow positions taken on by the counterparty to make its initial deliveries of shares to the company. in addition, the company expects that the counterparty may be purchasing or selling, or both purchasing and selling (and possibly taking on other long and/or short positions in company common stock), in other hedging transactions related to the accelerated share repurchase plan. all of these market transactions in the company's shares (or in derivative or other transactions related to company shares) would be for the counterparty's own account. although the magnitude and effect of such activities on the market price of the company's common stock cannot be determined at this time, such activities may increase, or prevent a decrease in, the market price of the common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company's policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in rates and prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. interest rates interest rate risk is present with both fixed- and floating-rate debt. the company manages its interest rate exposure through its mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt and its conservative debt ratio target. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate the company's exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate, based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. excluding debt for which a fixed rate has been swapped for a floating rate, fixed-rate debt represented approximately 49.6% of the company's $1.84 billion of total debt as of december 31, 2013. foreign currency exchange rates the company is exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business since a portion of the company's sales, expenses and operating transactions is conducted on a global basis in various foreign currencies. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in the functional currency of the entity entering into the transaction, the company is exposed to transactional foreign currency exchange rate risk. the company's foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts as economic hedges for commercial transactions and to offset the future impact of gains and losses resulting from changes in the expected amount of functional currency cash flows to be received or paid upon settlement of the anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transactions. gains and losses related to the settlement of qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. the company also uses natural hedging techniques such as offsetting or netting like foreign currency flows and denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency, particularly in situations where financial instruments are not available for currencies to hedge exposures. 49 table of contents the company also realizes gains and losses recorded within shareholders' equity due to the translation of the financial statements from the functional currency of its subsidiaries to u.s. dollars. the company utilizes capital structures of foreign subsidiaries combined with forward contracts to minimize its exposure to foreign currency risk. gains and losses related to qualifying forward exchange contracts and cross-currency hedges, which are generally used to hedge intercompany loans to or from foreign subsidiaries, are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). as of december 31, 2013, the company has $87.9 million of cash and cash equivalents subject to currency and currency exchange controls in venezuela. the value of this cash is therefore subject to changes in value based on exchange controls implemented by the venezuelan government. commodity prices the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel, stainless steel, aluminum and other metals, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. the company's resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene and polypropylene, representing two-thirds and one-third of quantities purchased, respectively. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. financial instruments in managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the company uses interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and cross-currency swaps. derivatives were recorded at fair value in the company's consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2013 as follows (in millions) : prepaid expenses and other $ 2.9 other assets $ 23.1 other accrued liabilities $ 1.4 other noncurrent liabilities $ 35.5 see footnote 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on derivatives. value at risk the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and includes substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding cost and equity method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below represent the company's estimate of the maximum loss that could arise in one day. the amounts presented in the table are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the one-day value-at-risk as of and for the year ended december 31, ( in millions, except percentages ): market risk (1) 2013 average december 31, 2013 2012 average december 31, 2012 confidence level interest rates $ 3.2 $ 3.1 $ 6.6 $ 2.9 95 % foreign exchange $ 7.9 $ 7.1 $ 9.7 $ 6.0 95 % (1) the company generally does not enter into material derivative contracts for commodities; therefore, commodity price risk is not shown because the amounts are not material. the year-over-year decrease in average value-at-risk for interest rates is primarily due to the company swapping a fixed rate for a short-term floating rate for $500 million of the company's medium-term notes due 2020 during 2012, because the short-term rate has less risk compared to the longer-term rate. because the fixed-for-floating swap was in effect for all of 2013, the average interest rate market risk is lower for 2013. the 95% confidence interval signifies the company's degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company's favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the company could 50 table of contents experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. additionally, since the company operates globally, and therefore, among a broad basket of currencies, its foreign currency exposure is diversified. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. 51 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world. the company's business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, central and south america, and asia. these sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions. with continuing challenging global economic conditions, particularly outside the u.s., there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on demand for the company's products, as well as its financial condition and results of operations. the company could also be negatively impacted by economic crises in specific countries or regions, including the deterioration in the creditworthiness of, or a default by, the issuers of sovereign debt. such events could negatively impact the company's overall liquidity and/or create significant credit risks relative to its local customers and depository institutions. consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of these factors could adversely impact the company's business. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers and e-commerce companies. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. the company's principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. the dominant share of the market represented by these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, has contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products, requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices, and requiring product delivery with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands, typically at lower prices, that compete with the company's products. 9 table of contents the combination of these market influences and retailer consolidation has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company's principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions. the intense competition in the retail and e-commerce sectors, combined with the overall economic environment, may result in a number of customers experiencing financial difficulty, or failing in the future. in particular, a loss of, or a failure by, one of the company's large customers would adversely impact the company's sales and operating cash flows. to address these challenges, the company must be able to respond to competitive factors, and the failure to respond effectively could result in a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. the company's customers may further consolidate, which could adversely affect its sales and margins. the company's customers have steadily consolidated over the last two decades. in 2013, two of the company's large customers, office depot and officemax, completed their previously announced merger. in february 2015, staples and office depot announced plans to merge. the company currently expects the combined companies will take actions to harmonize pricing from their suppliers, close retail outlets and rationalize their supply chain, which will negatively impact the company's sales and margins and adversely affect the company's business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that following consolidation these and other large customers will continue to buy from the company across different product categories or geographic regions, or at the same levels as prior to consolidation, which could negatively impact the company's financial results. further, if the consolidation trend continues, it is likely to result in future pressures that could reduce the company's sales and margins and have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company's plans to continue to improve productivity and reduce complexity and costs may not be successful, which would adversely affect its ability to compete. the company's success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline or redeploy nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building. the company is currently in the process of implementing project renewal, a global initiative designed to reduce the complexity of the organization, increase investment in the company's most significant growth platforms and align the business around two key activities brand &amp; category development and market execution &amp; delivery. project renewal may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not result in, in full or in part, the positive effects anticipated. in addition, such initiatives require the company to implement a significant amount of organizational change, which could have a negative impact on employee engagement, divert management's attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, impact the company's ability to retain key employees, cause disruptions in the company's day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on the company's financial results. it is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future. if the company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the company's ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted. the company's strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. its long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products and line extensions that create demand. new product development and commercialization efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. these risks include the considerable costs involved, such as development and commercialization, product development or launch delays, and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance or growth in sales or operating income. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company's products. in addition, sales generated by new products or line extensions could cause a decline in sales of the company's existing products. if new product development and commercialization efforts are not successful, the company's financial results could be adversely affected. 10 table of contents if the company does not continue to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands, or realize the anticipated benefits of increased advertising spend, its operating results may suffer. the company's ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that the company's retailer and other customers will need the company's products to meet consumer demand. consumer-meaningful brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to continue to increase its expenditures for advertising and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the initiatives may not deliver the anticipated results and the results of such initiatives may not cover the costs of the increased investment. price increases in raw materials and sourced products could harm the company's financial results. the company purchases raw materials, including resin, principally polyethylene, polypropylene and copolyester, corrugate, steel, gold, brass, carbide and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures. the company's success is dependent, in part, on its continued ability to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts, sales price adjustments and certain derivative instruments, while maintaining and improving margins and market share. also, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. raw material and sourced product price increases may more than offset the company's productivity gains and price increases and adversely impact the company's financial results. if the company is unable to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses, the company's future growth and profitability could be adversely impacted. the company's ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully remains an important factor in the company's future growth. in 2014, the company completed the acquisitions of ignite and baby jogger and the assets of bubba. the company's ability to successfully integrate these or any other acquired business is dependent upon its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, integrate and manage product lines that have been acquired, obtain anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, assume unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized or known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, and manage unanticipated demands on the company's management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. furthermore, the company's ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the company's financial position and access to credit markets. in addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the company's borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the company's future access to capital. the company may not successfully manage these or other risks it may encounter in acquiring a business or product line, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. circumstances associated with divestitures and product line exits could adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. the company continues to evaluate the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products. during 2014, the company's endicia and culinary electrics and retail businesses were classified as discontinued operations based on the company's commitment to sell these businesses, and the company may decide to sell or discontinue other businesses or products in the future based on an evaluation of performance and strategic fit. a decision to divest or discontinue a business or product may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. in addition, prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company's business; and the potential loss of key employees. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or exiting product lines, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. 11 table of contents the company is subject to risks related to its international operations and sourcing model. international operations are important to the company's business, and the company's strategy emphasizes international growth. in addition, as the company sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in asia, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation; other currency fluctuations; tariffs; nationalization; exchange controls; labor inflation; interest rates; limitations on foreign investment in local business; compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside the united states, such as the foreign corrupt practices act; and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. the company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in reliance on foreign sourcing. the company has foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect the company's operating results, financial condition and liquidity. the financial position and results of operations of many of the company's international subsidiaries are initially recorded in various foreign currencies and then translated into u.s. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in the company's financial statements. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against these foreign currencies ordinarily has a negative impact on the company's reported sales and operating margin (and conversely, the weakening of the u.s. dollar has a positive impact). for the year ended december 31, 2014, foreign currency unfavorably affected reported sales by $115.3 million compared to the year ended december 31, 2013. the volatility of foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect the company's operating results. the margin impacts from changes in foreign currency are because the company's costs for produced and sourced products are largely denominated in u.s. dollars, and the company's international operations generally sell the company's products at prices denominated in local currencies. when local currencies decline in value relative to the u.s. dollar in the regions in which the company sells products whose costs are denominated in u.s. dollars, the company's international businesses would need to increase the local currency sales prices of the products and/or reduce costs through productivity or other initiatives in order to maintain the same level of profitability. the company may not be able to increase the selling prices of its products in its international businesses due to market dynamics, competition or otherwise and may not realize cost reductions through productivity or other initiatives. as a result, gross margins and overall operating results of the company's international businesses would be adversely affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens. the company has been and will continue to be impacted by developments in venezuela including the significant devaluations of the venezuelan bolivar fuerte that have occurred in recent years as well as the implementation of related exchange controls. in addition, in the first quarter of 2014, the venezuelan government issued a law on fair pricing which establishes a maximum profit margin of 30%, thereby limiting the company's ability to implement price increases, which had been one of the key mechanisms to offset the effects of continuing high inflation and the impact of currency devaluation. in 2015, regulations will require the company to identify the ultimate retail price to consumers on products it sells, which could adversely affect the prices the company charges to its distributor customers. going forward, additional government actions, including in the form of further currency devaluations, continued import authorization controls, foreign exchange, price or profit controls or expropriation or other form of government take-over could have further adverse impacts on the company's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and footnote 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. the inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect the company's ability to manufacture and market its products. the company purchases raw materials to be used in manufacturing its products. in addition, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. the company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its suppliers or sourcing partners. most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis; however, in limited cases where the company has supply contracts with fixed prices, the company may be required to purchase raw materials at above-market prices, which could adversely impact gross margins. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. in particular, the company's baby &amp; parenting business has a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of baby &amp; parenting's sales and which owns the intellectual property for many of those products. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by the company's suppliers and/or sourcing partners or changes in the company's relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent the company from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to manufacture and market its products, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. 12 table of contents a failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on the company's business or reputation. the company relies extensively on information technology (it) systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting business. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: ordering and managing materials from suppliers; converting materials to finished products; shipping products to customers; marketing and selling products to consumers; collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and personal data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processes necessary to manage the company's business. increased it security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the company's it systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the company's data. if the it systems, networks or service providers relied upon fail to function properly, or if the company suffers a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations and reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely impact the company's results of operations and/or financial condition. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company's assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company's sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, a material adverse change in the company's relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company's stock price. the company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, the company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. the company's businesses are subject to regulation in the u.s. and abroad. changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the company does business. this includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. accordingly, the company's ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal and environmental matters without significant liability could require the company to record significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the company's results. in addition, new regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis, significantly restrict the company's ability to sell certain products, or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. for example, the united states consumer product safety commission and health canada are advocating for more strict design standards for window blinds that if implemented, would require the company to redesign all window blinds sold in the u.s. and canada. for certain products, redesign may not be possible or practical, and as a result, the company would lose revenues from the sales of such products. as a u.s.-based multinational company, the company is also subject to tax regulations in the u.s. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. for example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the u.s. is not taxed in the u.s. until those earnings are actually repatriated or deemed repatriated. if these or other tax regulations should change, the company's financial results could be impacted. 13 table of contents the company may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. the company's success at implementing project renewal and the growth game plan and its future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. the company's success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the company can retain its key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. the resolution of the company's tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company's cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions outside the u.s. significant estimation and judgment are required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company's business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by various worldwide tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the company's financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the company's products arise in the ordinary course of the company's business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments or fines or penalties that may result from any governmental investigations, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company's reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company's products. the company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. for example, in 2014, the company initiated a voluntary recall on harness buckles used on certain graco-branded convertible and harnessed booster toddler car seats, which was later expanded to include harness buckles used on certain infant car seats manufactured between july 2010 and may 2013. the company's results for the year ended december 31, 2014 included $15.0 million of charges reflecting the cost of the recall of the harness buckles used on certain toddler and infant car seats (which does not include any fines or penalties that may result from the investigation into the circumstances related to the recall announced by the national highway traffic safety administration in december 2014). although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention, may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. a reduction in the company's credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's current senior debt credit ratings from moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's and fitch ratings are baa3, bbb- and bbb, respectively. its current short-term debt credit ratings from moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's and fitch ratings are p-3, a-3 and f-2, respectively. moody's has a stable outlook on its ratings, and fitch and standard &amp; poor's have positive outlooks on their ratings. the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. a downgrade by moody's or standard &amp; poor's, which would reduce the company's senior debt below investment-grade, could increase the company's borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the company's financial results. the company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company's short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would limit, or eliminate entirely, the company's access to the commercial paper market. the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company's securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company's earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company's pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company's pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the 14 table of contents equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore the company's estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company's required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company's pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, the company's future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company's pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company's policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in rates and prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. interest rates interest rate risk is present with both fixed- and floating-rate debt. the company manages its interest rate exposure through its mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate the company's exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate, based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. excluding debt for which a fixed rate has been swapped for a floating rate, fixed-rate debt represented approximately 60.7% of the company's $2.48 billion of total debt as of december 31, 2014. foreign currency exchange rates the company is exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business, since a portion of the company's sales, expenses and operating transactions is conducted on a global basis in various foreign currencies. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in the functional currency of the entity entering into the transaction, the company is exposed to transactional foreign currency exchange rate risk. the company's foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts as economic hedges for commercial transactions and to offset the future impact of gains and losses resulting from changes in the expected amount of functional currency cash flows to be received or paid upon settlement of the anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transactions. gains and losses related to the settlement of qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. the company also uses natural hedging techniques such as offsetting or netting like foreign currency flows and denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency, particularly in situations where financial instruments are not available for currencies to hedge exposures. the company also realizes gains and losses recorded within shareholders' equity due to the translation of the financial statements from the functional currency of its subsidiaries to u.s. dollars. the company utilizes capital structures of foreign subsidiaries combined with forward contracts to minimize its exposure to foreign currency risk. gains and losses related to qualifying forward 52 table of contents exchange contracts and cross-currency hedges, which are generally used to hedge intercompany loans to or from foreign subsidiaries, are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). as of december 31, 2014, the company has $53.3 million of cash and cash equivalents subject to currency and currency exchange controls in venezuela. the value of this cash is therefore subject to changes in value based on exchange controls implemented by the venezuelan government. commodity prices the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel, stainless steel, aluminum and other metals, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. the company's resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene, polypropylene and copolyester. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. financial instruments in managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the company uses interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and cross-currency swaps. derivatives were recorded at fair value in the company's consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2014 as follows (in millions) : prepaid expenses and other $ 7.7 other assets $ other accrued liabilities $ 0.5 other noncurrent liabilities $ 11.8 see footnote 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on derivatives. value at risk the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and includes substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding cost and equity method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below represent the company's estimate of the maximum loss that could arise in one day. the amounts presented in the table are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the one-day value-at-risk as of and for the year ended december 31, ( in millions, except percentages ): market risk (1) 2014 average december 31, 2014 2013 average december 31, 2013 confidence level interest rates $ 2.3 $ 2.5 $ 3.2 $ 3.1 95 % foreign exchange $ 4.9 $ 5.0 $ 7.9 $ 7.1 95 % (1) the company generally does not enter into material derivative contracts for commodities; therefore, commodity price risk is not shown because the amounts are not material. the 95% confidence interval signifies the company's degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company's favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. additionally, since the company operates globally and, therefore, among a broad basket of currencies, its foreign currency exposure is diversified. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world. the company's business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, latin america and asia. these sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions. with continuing challenging global economic conditions, particularly outside the u.s., there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on demand for the company's products, as well as its financial condition and results of operations. the company could also be negatively impacted by economic crises in specific countries or regions, including the deterioration in the creditworthiness of, or a default by, the issuers of sovereign debt. such events could negatively impact the company's overall liquidity and/or create significant credit risks relative to its local customers and depository institutions. consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of these factors could adversely impact the company's business. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers and e-commerce companies. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. the company's principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. the dominant share of the market represented by these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, has contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and products tailored to each of their unique requirements, requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices in response to competitive, economic or other factors, and requiring product delivery with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands, typically at lower prices, that compete with the company's products. 10 table of contents the combination of these market influences and retailer consolidation has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company's principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions. the intense competition in the retail and e-commerce sectors, combined with the overall economic environment, may result in a number of customers experiencing financial difficulty, or failing in the future. in particular, a loss of, or a failure by, one of the company's large customers could adversely impact the company's sales and operating cash flows. to address these challenges, the company must be able to respond to competitive factors, and the failure to respond effectively could result in a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. the company's customers may further consolidate, which could adversely affect its sales and margins. the company's customers have steadily consolidated over the last two decades. in 2013, two of the company's large customers, office depot and officemax, completed their previously announced merger. in february 2015, staples and office depot announced plans to merge. the company currently expects any customers that consolidate will take actions to harmonize pricing from their suppliers, close retail outlets and rationalize their supply chain, which could negatively impact the company's sales and margins and adversely affect the company's business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that following consolidation, the company's large customers will continue to buy from the company across different product categories or geographic regions, or at the same levels as prior to consolidation, which could negatively impact the company's financial results. further, if the consolidation trend continues, it could result in future pressures that could reduce the company's sales and margins and have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company's plans to continue to improve productivity and reduce complexity and costs may not be successful, which would adversely affect its ability to compete. the company's success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline or redeploy nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building, including advertising and promotion. the company is currently in the process of implementing project renewal, a global initiative designed to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in the company's most significant growth platforms. project renewal may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not result in, in full or in part, the positive effects anticipated. in addition, such initiatives require the company to implement a significant amount of organizational change, which could have a negative impact on employee engagement, divert management's attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, impact the company's ability to retain key employees, cause disruptions in the company's day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on the company's financial results. it is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future. if the company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the company's ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted. the company's strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. its long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products and line extensions that create demand. new product development and commercialization efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. these risks include the costs involved, such as development and commercialization, product development or launch delays, and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance or growth in sales or operating income. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company's products. in addition, sales generated by new products or line extensions could cause a decline in sales of the company's existing products. if new product development and commercialization efforts are not successful, the company's financial results could be adversely affected. if the company does not continue to develop and maintain leading brands or realize the anticipated benefits of increased advertising and promotion spend, its operating results may suffer. the company's ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain leading brands so that the company's retailer and other customers will need the company's products to meet consumer demand. leading brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to continue to increase its expenditures for advertising and promotion and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the initiatives may not deliver the anticipated results and the results of such initiatives may not cover the costs of the increased investment. 11 table of contents price increases in raw materials and sourced products could harm the company's financial results. the company purchases raw materials, including resin, principally polyethylene, polypropylene and copolyester, corrugate, steel, gold, brass and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures. the company's success is dependent, in part, on its continued ability to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts, sales price adjustments and certain derivative instruments, while maintaining and improving margins and market share. also, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. raw material and sourced product price increases may more than offset the company's productivity gains and price increases and adversely impact the company's financial results. if the company is unable to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses, the company's future growth and profitability could be adversely impacted. the company's ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully remain important factors in the company's future growth. in 2014, the company completed the acquisitions of ignite and baby jogger and the assets of bubba and in 2015, completed the acquisition of elmer's products, inc. the company's ability to successfully integrate these or any other acquired business is dependent upon its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, integrate and manage product lines that have been acquired, obtain anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, assume unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized or known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, and manage unanticipated demands on the company's management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. furthermore, the company's ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the company's financial position and access to credit markets. in addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the company's borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the company's future access to capital. the company may not successfully manage these or other risks it may encounter in acquiring and integrating a business or product line, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. circumstances associated with divestitures and product line exits could adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. the company continually evaluates the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products. in august 2015, the company sold its rubbermaid medical cart business, and in november 2015, the company completed the sale of the endicia on-line postage business. in october 2015, the company announced that it intends to divest its d cor business, which comprises its levolor and kirsch window coverings brands. the company may decide to sell or discontinue other businesses or products in the future based on an evaluation of performance and strategic fit. a decision to divest or discontinue a business or product may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. in addition, prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company's business; and the potential loss of key employees. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or exiting product lines, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. the company is subject to risks related to its international operations and sourcing model. international operations are important to the company's business, and the company's strategy emphasizes international growth. in addition, as the company sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in asia, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation; other currency fluctuations; tariffs; nationalization; exchange controls; price controls; labor inflation; interest rates; limitations on foreign investment in local business; compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside the united states, such as the foreign corrupt practices act; and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. the company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in reliance on foreign sourcing. 12 table of contents the company has foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect the company's operating results, financial condition and liquidity. the financial position and results of operations of many of the company's international subsidiaries are initially recorded in various foreign currencies and then translated into u.s. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in the company's financial statements. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against these foreign currencies ordinarily has a negative impact on the company's reported sales, operating margin and operating income (and conversely, the weakening of the u.s. dollar has a positive impact). for the year ended december 31, 2015, foreign currency unfavorably affected reported sales by $331 million compared to the year ended december 31, 2014. the volatility of foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect the company's operating results. the margin impacts from changes in foreign currency are because the company's costs for produced and sourced products are largely denominated in u.s. dollars, and the company's international operations generally sell the company's products at prices denominated in local currencies. when local currencies decline in value relative to the u.s. dollar in the regions in which the company sells products whose costs are denominated in u.s. dollars, the company's international businesses would need to increase the local currency sales prices of the products and/or reduce costs through productivity or other initiatives in order to maintain the same level of profitability. the company may not be able to increase the selling prices of its products in its international businesses due to market dynamics, competition or otherwise and may not realize cost reductions through productivity or other initiatives. as a result, gross margins and overall operating results of the company's international businesses would be adversely affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens. the company has been adversely impacted by developments in venezuela, including the significant devaluations of the venezuelan bolivar that have occurred in recent years, the declining availability of u.s. dollars and the implementation of pricing and exchange controls in venezuela. in 2014, the venezuelan government issued a law on fair pricing which established a maximum profit margin of 30%, thereby limiting the company's ability to implement price increases, which had been one of the key mechanisms to offset the effects of continuing high inflation and the impact of currency devaluations. in 2015, the venezuelan government adopted additional regulations requiring the company to identify the ultimate retail price to consumers on products it sells and further limit maximum profit margins on certain products to 20%, both of which adversely affected the prices the company charges to its distributor customers and its distribution channels and route-to-market. as a result of increasingly restrictive exchange control regulations and reduced access to u.s. dollars through official currency exchange mechanisms, the company concluded that an other-than-temporary lack of exchangeability between the venezuelan bolivar and the u.s. dollar existed as of december 31, 2015. the exchange restrictions and other regulations have impacted the company's ability to make key operational and financial decisions regarding its venezuelan operations and benefit from the earnings of its venezuelan operations. the company determined that it no longer could exercise control over the operations of its venezuela subsidiary. accordingly, the company deconsolidated its venezuela subsidiary on december 31, 2015 and recorded a pretax charge of $172.7 million. future government actions, such as currency devaluations, import authorization controls, foreign exchange controls, price or profit controls or expropriation or other forms of government take-over, could adversely impact the company's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and footnote 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. the inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect the company's ability to manufacture and market its products. the company purchases raw materials to be used in manufacturing its products. in addition, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. the company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its suppliers or sourcing partners. most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis; however, in limited cases where the company has supply contracts with fixed prices, the company may be required to purchase raw materials at above-market prices, which could adversely impact gross margins. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. in particular, the company's baby &amp; parenting business has a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of baby &amp; parenting's sales and which owns the intellectual property for many of those products. in addition, certain businesses in the company's home solutions segment rely on a single source of supply for a majority of their products. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by the company's suppliers and/or sourcing partners or changes in the company's relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent the company from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to manufacture and market its products, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. 13 table of contents a failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on the company's business or reputation. the company relies extensively on information technology (it) systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting business. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: ordering and managing materials from suppliers; converting materials to finished products; shipping products to customers; marketing and selling products to consumers; collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and personal data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processes necessary to manage the company's business. increased it security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the company's it systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the company's data. if the it systems, networks or service providers relied upon fail to function properly, or if the company suffers a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations and reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely impact the company's results of operations and/or financial condition. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company's assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company's sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, a material adverse change in the company's relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company's stock price. the company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, the company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. the company's businesses are subject to regulation in the u.s. and abroad. changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the company does business. this includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. accordingly, the company's ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal and environmental matters without significant liability could require the company to record significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the company's results. in addition, new regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis, significantly restrict the company's ability to sell certain products, or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. for example, the united states consumer product safety commission and health canada are advocating for more strict design standards for window blinds that if implemented, would require the company to redesign a large number of window blinds products sold in the u.s. and canada. for certain products, redesign may not be possible or practical, and as a result, the company would lose revenues from the sales of such products. as a u.s.-based multinational company, the company is also subject to tax regulations in the u.s. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. for example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the u.s. is not taxed in the u.s. until those earnings are actually repatriated or deemed repatriated. if these or other tax regulations should change, the company's financial results could be impacted. 14 table of contents the company may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. the company's success at implementing project renewal and the growth game plan and its future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. the company's success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the company can retain its key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. the resolution of the company's tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company's cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions outside the u.s. significant estimation and judgment are required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company's business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by various worldwide tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the company's financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the company's products arise in the ordinary course of the company's business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments or fines or penalties that may result from any governmental investigations, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company's reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company's products. the company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured deductible and may exceed the amount of insurance coverage, while certain costs, such as recall expenses and government fines, are outside the scope of the company's insurance coverage. a reduction in the company's credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's current senior debt credit ratings from moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's and fitch ratings are baa3, bbb- and bbb+, respectively. its current short-term debt credit ratings from moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's and fitch ratings are p-3, a-3 and f-2, respectively. moody's has a stable outlook on its ratings, and standard &amp; poor's and fitch have a negative outlook on their ratings. the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. a downgrade by moody's or standard &amp; poor's, which would reduce the company's senior debt below investment-grade, could increase the company's borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the company's financial results. the company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company's short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would limit, or eliminate entirely, the company's access to the commercial paper market. the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company's securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the level of returns on pension and post-retirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company's earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company's pension and post-retirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company's pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore the company's estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company's required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. 15 table of contents assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company's pension and other post-retirement benefit plans are determined by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, expected health care costs, or mortality rates, the company's future pension and post-retirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company's pension and post-retirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. risks related to the proposed merger transactions with jarden corporation the company is subject to various risks related to the proposed merger transactions with jarden. as described elsewhere is this annual report on form 10-k, the company has entered into the merger agreement with jarden pursuant to which the company will acquire jarden in the proposed merger transactions (as defined below). the risks, contingencies and other uncertainties that could result in the failure of the proposed merger transactions to be completed or, if completed, that could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of the company following the proposed merger transactions, and any anticipated benefits of the proposed merger transactions to the company, include: the failure to obtain necessary regulatory or other approvals for the proposed merger transactions, which could result in a material delay in, or the abandonment of, the proposed merger transactions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on newell rubbermaid or jarden, or if obtained, the possibility of newell rubbermaid being subjected to conditions that could reduce or delay the expected cost savings and other benefits of the proposed merger transactions; the failure to obtain necessary stockholder approvals for the share issuance and the adoption of the merger agreement; the obligation of newell rubbermaid to complete the proposed merger transactions even if financing is not available or is available only on terms other than those currently anticipated; the failure to satisfy required closing conditions or complete the proposed merger transactions in a timely manner or at all; the effect of the announcement of the proposed merger transactions on each company's ability to retain and hire key personnel, maintain business relationships, and on operating results and the businesses generally; the effect of restrictions placed on newell rubbermaid's and jarden's respective subsidiaries' business activities and ability to pursue alternatives to the proposed merger transactions pursuant to the merger agreement; the terms and availability of indebtedness planned to be incurred in connection with the proposed merger transactions; the risk that the company may not be able to maintain its investment grade rating; the potential impact of the proposed merger transactions on the stock price of the company, and the dividends expected to be paid to company stockholders in the future; the failure to realize projected cost savings and other benefits from the proposed merger transactions; the incurrence of significant pre- and post-transaction related costs in connection with the proposed merger transactions that are, and will be, incurred regardless of whether the proposed merger transactions are completed; and the occurrence of any event giving rise to the right of a party to terminate the merger agreement. the future results of the company following the proposed merger transactions will suffer if newell brands does not effectively manage its expanded operations or successfully integrate the businesses of newell rubbermaid and jarden. following the proposed merger transactions, the size of the business of newell brands will increase significantly beyond the current size of either newell rubbermaid's or jarden's business. newell brands' future success will depend, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. if newell brands is not able to successfully combine the businesses of newell rubbermaid and jarden in an efficient and effective manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of common stock of newell brands may be affected adversely. an inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the proposed merger transactions and the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of newell brands, which may adversely affect the value of its common stock following the proposed merger transactions. in addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. actual growth and cost savings, if achieved, may be lower than what newell brands expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. 16 table of contents uncertainties associated with the proposed merger transactions may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees which could affect the future business and operations of the company following the proposed merger transactions. the success of the proposed merger transactions will depend in part on newell brands' ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees currently employed by jarden and by the company. it is possible that these employees may decide not to remain with jarden or with the company, as applicable, while the proposed merger transactions are pending or with newell brands after the proposed merger transactions are consummated. if key employees terminate their employment, or if an insufficient number of employees are retained to maintain effective operations, newell brands' business activities may be adversely affected and management's attention may be diverted from successfully integrating the businesses to hiring suitable replacements, all of which may cause newell brands' business to suffer. in addition, the company and jarden may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave either company, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms. newell rubbermaid may encounter difficulties or high costs associated with securing financing necessary to pay the cash portion of the merger consideration. newell rubbermaid currently intends to finance the cash portion of the merger consideration for the proposed merger transactions and related fees and expenses incurred by it in connection with the proposed merger transactions, to refinance approximately $4.5 billion of outstanding jarden debt and to assume two tranches of outstanding jarden debt with principal amounts of $300 million and 300 million, with up to approximately $10.1 billion of new debt expected to be incurred in the form of (1) up to approximately $8.6 billion of newly issued newell rubbermaid debt securities and the $1.5 billion term loan facility, depending on market conditions at the time of obtaining the financing and available cash balances, and (2) available balance sheet cash. to the extent necessary, newell rubbermaid may also fund all or a portion of the cash portion of the merger consideration from borrowings under the bridge credit facility, as contemplated by the commitment letter with a lender, or from borrowings under other permanent or alternative financing. newell rubbermaid expects to pursue financing that would replace or supplement financing available under the bridge credit facility. there is no guarantee that replacement or supplemental financing will be available to newell rubbermaid on acceptable terms or at all. newell rubbermaid's ability to obtain financing to replace or supplement the commitment under the bridge credit facility will be subject to various factors, including market conditions, operating performance and credit ratings, and may be subject to restrictions in the agreements relating to newell rubbermaid's outstanding debt. the receipt of financing by newell rubbermaid is not a condition to the completion of the proposed merger transactions and, except in certain limited circumstances in which newell rubbermaid or jarden may be permitted to terminate the proposed merger transactions if (1) the proceeds to be provided to newell rubbermaid pursuant to the bridge credit facility sufficient to consummate the proposed merger transactions are not available and (2) a debt rating failure has occurred, newell rubbermaid will be required to complete the proposed merger transactions (assuming that all of the conditions to its obligations under the merger agreement are satisfied). newell rubbermaid would be obligated to complete the proposed merger transactions whether or not the bridge credit facility or other financing is available on acceptable terms or at all. the substantial additional indebtedness that the company will incur in connection with the proposed merger transactions could materially adversely affect newell brands and its financial position after the proposed merger transactions, including by decreasing newell brands' business flexibility, increasing its borrowing costs and resulting in a reduction of newell brands' credit ratings . following completion of the proposed merger transactions, newell brands will have substantially increased debt compared to newell rubbermaid and jarden on a recent historical basis. newell rubbermaid expects to incur more than $5.0 billion of additional debt (excluding approximately $4.5 billion of jarden debt expected to be refinanced in connection with the proposed merger transactions and two tranches of outstanding jarden debt with principal amounts of $300 million and 300 million expected to be assumed by newell brands in connection with the proposed merger transactions), assuming the conversion of all jarden's convertible notes into shares of jarden common stock entitled to receive the merger consideration in connection with the completion of the proposed merger transactions. this increased level of debt could have the effect, among other things, of reducing newell brands' flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and will have the effect of increasing newell brands' interest expense. in addition, if newell brands is unable to timely reduce its level of indebtedness following the proposed merger transactions, newell brands will be subject to increased demands on its cash resources, which could increase its total debt-to- capitalization ratios, decrease its interest coverage ratios or otherwise result in a breach of the covenants or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of newell brands. newell rubbermaid's credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, newell rubbermaid's cost of capital. newell rubbermaid's credit ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of newell rubbermaid's financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet newell rubbermaid's debt obligations. following announcement of the 17 table of contents proposed merger transactions, standard &amp; poor's ratings services reaffirmed all of its ratings on newell rubbermaid, including its bbb- corporate credit rating, moody's reaffirmed newell rubbermaid's baa3 senior unsecured rating and fitch reaffirmed newell rubbermaid's bbb+ long-term issuer default rating, although fitch indicated it anticipates a downgrade from bbb+ to bbb- upon completion of the proposed merger transactions. there can be no assurance any of the rating agencies will not downgrade the company's credit rating upon completion of the proposed merger transactions, and any reduction in newell rubbermaid's credit ratings, either on a corporate basis or any one or more debt issuances or under the bridge credit facility (as contemplated by the commitment letter with a lender) or otherwise, may limit newell rubbermaid's ability to borrow at interest rates consistent with the interest rates currently available or available to newell rubbermaid prior to the proposed merger transactions. any impairment of newell rubbermaid's ability to obtain future financing on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on newell rubbermaid's ability to finance the cash portion of the merger consideration through the issuance of debt securities or another alternative to borrowings under the bridge credit facility on terms more favorable than those contemplated by the bridge credit facility, or to refinance the bridge credit facility, if drawn. the proposed merger transactions are subject to a number of conditions to the obligations of both newell rubbermaid and jarden to complete the proposed merger transactions, which, if not fulfilled, or not fulfilled in a timely manner, may result in termination of the merger agreement. the merger agreement contains a number of conditions to completion of the proposed merger transactions, including, among others: approval of the share issuance by newell rubbermaid stockholders; adoption of the merger agreement by jarden stockholders; effectiveness under the securities act of newell rubbermaid's form s-4 registration statement relating to the offer, sale and issuance of the newell rubbermaid common stock in connection with the share issuance and the absence of any stop order in respect thereof or proceedings by the sec for that purpose; expiration or termination of the applicable hsr act waiting period and the affirmative approval of antitrust and competition authorities or expiration of waiting periods in certain other specified jurisdictions; the absence of laws, orders, judgments and injunctions that restrain, enjoin or otherwise prohibit completion of the proposed merger transactions; subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of representations and warranties with respect to the businesses of newell rubbermaid and jarden and compliance by newell rubbermaid and jarden with their respective covenants contained in the merger agreement; and the absence of a material adverse effect relating to newell rubbermaid or jarden. many of the conditions to completion of the proposed merger transactions are not within either newell rubbermaid's or jarden's control, and neither company can predict when or if these conditions will be satisfied. if any of these conditions are not satisfied or waived prior to july 31, 2016, which may be extended by either newell rubbermaid or jarden up to two times, each for an additional 45 day period, it is possible that the merger agreement may be terminated. although newell rubbermaid and jarden have agreed in the merger agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts, subject to certain limitations, to complete the proposed merger transactions as promptly as practicable, these and other conditions to the completion of the proposed merger transactions may fail to be satisfied. in addition, satisfying the conditions to and completion of the proposed merger transactions may take longer, and could cost more, than newell rubbermaid and jarden expect. neither newell rubbermaid nor jarden can predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the proposed merger transactions for a significant period of time or prevent them from occurring. any delay in completing the proposed merger transactions may adversely affect the cost savings and other benefits that newell rubbermaid expects to achieve if the proposed merger transactions and the integration of the companies' respective businesses are completed within the expected timeframe. failure to complete the proposed merger transactions could negatively impact newell rubbermaid's or jarden's stock price and have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, cash flows and financial position. if the proposed merger transactions are not completed for any reason, including as a result of newell rubbermaid or jarden stockholders failing to approve the applicable proposals, the ongoing businesses of newell rubbermaid and jarden may be materially adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the proposed merger transactions, newell rubbermaid and jarden would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: newell rubbermaid and jarden may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on their respective stock prices; newell rubbermaid and jarden and their respective subsidiaries may experience negative reactions from their respective customers, distributors, regulators, vendors and employees; 18 table of contents newell rubbermaid and jarden will still be required to pay certain significant costs relating to the proposed merger transactions, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; newell rubbermaid or jarden may be required to pay one or more cash termination fees as required by the merger agreement; the merger agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of the respective businesses pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, which may have delayed or prevented the respective companies from undertaking business opportunities that, absent the merger agreement, may have been pursued; matters relating to the proposed merger transactions (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources by each company's management, which could have resulted in the distraction of each company's management from ongoing business operations and pursing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to the companies; and litigation related to any failure to complete the proposed merger transactions or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against newell rubbermaid or jarden to perform their respective obligations under the merger agreement. for example, the merger agreement provides that, upon termination of the merger agreement under specified circumstances, including termination by newell rubbermaid or jarden to enter into a definitive agreement for a proposal that constitutes a superior proposal, newell rubbermaid or jarden, as applicable, will be required to pay the other a cash termination fee equal to $385 million. in addition, if the merger agreement is terminated by either party due to a failure to obtain the applicable necessary stockholder approval, newell rubbermaid or jarden, as applicable, will be required to reimburse the other for up to $100 million for fees and expenses incurred in connection with the proposed merger transactions. newell rubbermaid could also be required to pay a termination fee of $900 million to jarden and terminate the merger agreement under certain conditions if it is unable to obtain financing contemplated by the merger agreement, including the bridge credit facility (as contemplated by the commitment letter with a lender), and is otherwise unable to secure alternative investment grade financing. if the proposed merger transactions are not completed, the risks described above may materialize and they may have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, cash flows, financial position and stock prices. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company's market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company's policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in rates and prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. interest rates interest rate risk is present with both fixed- and floating-rate debt. the company manages its interest rate exposure through its mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate the company's exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of the company's fixed-rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate, based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. excluding debt for which a fixed rate has been swapped for a floating rate, fixed-rate debt represented approximately 68.3% of the company's $3.08 billion of total debt as of december 31, 2015. interest rate risk is also present on anticipated issuances of debt. the company manages its interest rate exposure on anticipated issuances of debt through forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. forward-starting interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges are used to mitigate the company's exposure to changes in future interest payments that results from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates prior to the issuance of the debt. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the interest cash flows of the company's anticipated debt issuances, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the forward- starting interest rate swap agreements. as of december 31, 2015, the company had entered into forward-starting interest rate swap agreements for $1.0 billion notional amount of debt anticipated to be issued in the first half of 2016, and in january 2016, the company entered into forward-starting interest rate swap agreements for an additional $1.3 billion notional amount of debt anticipated to be issued in the first half of 2016. such forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were designated as hedges of the cash flows associated with benchmark interest rates underlying future interest payments on the anticipated debt issuances. if benchmark interest rates do not increase from current levels, the company would be required to pay the counterparties for the value of the forward-starting interest rate swaps since benchmark interest rates have declined since the company entered into the forward-starting interest rate swaps, and such amounts could be significant. foreign currency exchange rates the company is exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business, since a portion of the company's sales, expenses and operating transactions is conducted on a global basis in various foreign currencies. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in the functional currency of the entity entering into the transaction, the company is exposed to transactional foreign currency exchange rate risk. the company's foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transaction exposures of durations of 18 months or less. the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts as economic hedges for commercial transactions and to offset the future impact of gains and losses resulting from changes in the expected amount of functional currency cash flows to be received or paid upon settlement of the anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transactions. gains and losses related to the settlement of qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. the company also uses natural hedging techniques such as offsetting or netting like foreign currency flows and denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency, particularly in situations where financial instruments are not available for currencies to hedge exposures. 62 table of contents the company also realizes gains and losses recorded within stockholders' equity due to the translation of the financial statements from the functional currency of its subsidiaries to u.s. dollars. the company utilizes capital structures of foreign subsidiaries combined with forward contracts to minimize its exposure to foreign currency risk. gains and losses related to qualifying forward exchange contracts and cross-currency hedges, which are generally used to hedge intercompany loans to or from foreign subsidiaries, are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). commodity prices the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel, stainless steel, aluminum and other metals, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. the company's resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene, polypropylene and copolyester. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. financial instruments in managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the company uses interest rate swaps, forward- starting interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and cross-currency swaps. derivatives were recorded at fair value in the company's consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2015 as follows (in millions) : prepaid expenses and other $ 6.7 other assets $ 2.8 other accrued liabilities $ 3.3 other noncurrent liabilities $ 8.6 see footnote 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on derivatives. value at risk the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and includes substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding cost and equity method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below represent the company's estimate of the maximum loss that could arise in one day. the amounts presented in the table are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the one-day value-at-risk as of and for the year ended december 31, ( in millions, except percentages ): market risk (1) 2015 average december 31, 2015 2014 average december 31, 2014 confidence level interest rates $ 6.7 $ 7.3 $ 2.3 $ 2.5 95 % foreign exchange $ 6.2 $ 5.3 $ 4.9 $ 5.0 95 % (1) the company generally does not enter into material derivative contracts for commodities; therefore, commodity price risk is not shown because the amounts are not material. the increase in value at risk associated with interest rates and foreign exchange is primarily due to increased volatility in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. the 95% confidence interval signifies the company's degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company's favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors the ownership of the company's common stock involves a number of risks and uncertainties. potential investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this annual report on form 10-k before deciding whether to invest in the company's securities. the company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the risks described below are not the only ones facing the company. additional risks that are currently unknown to the company or that the company currently considers to be immaterial may also impair its business or adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world. the company's business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, latin america and asia. these sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions. with continuing challenging global economic conditions, particularly outside of the u.s., there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on demand for the company's products, as well as its financial condition and results of operations. the company could also be negatively impacted by economic crises in specific countries or regions. such events could negatively 10 table of contents impact the company's overall liquidity and/or create significant credit risks relative to its local customers and depository institutions. consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of these factors could adversely impact the company's business. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers and e-commerce companies. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. the company's principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. the dominant share of the market represented by these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, has contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and products tailored to each of their unique requirements, requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices in response to competitive, economic or other factors, and requiring product delivery with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands, typically at lower prices, that compete with the company's products. the combination of these market influences and retailer consolidation has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company's principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions. the intense competition in the retail and e-commerce sectors, combined with the overall economic environment, may result in a number of customers experiencing financial difficulty, or failing in the future. in particular, a loss of, or a failure by, one of the company's large customers could adversely impact the company's sales and operating cash flows. to address these challenges, the company must be able to respond to competitive factors, and the failure to respond effectively could result in a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. the company's sales are dependent on purchases from several large customers and any significant decline in these purchases or pressure from these customers to reduce prices could have a negative effect on the company's future financial performance. the company's customer base is relatively fragmented. although we have long-established relationships with many customers, the company generally does not have any long-term supply or binding contracts or guarantees of minimum purchases with its largest customers. purchases by these customers are generally made using individual purchase orders. as a result, these customers may cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, delay purchases for a number of reasons beyond the company's control or change other terms of the business relationship. significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in purchases or changes in business practices or by customers could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, because many of the company's costs are fixed, a reduction in customer demand could have an adverse effect on the company's gross profit margins and operating income. the company depends on a continuous flow of new orders from large, high-volume retail customers; however, the company may be unable to continually meet the needs of these customers. retailers are increasing their demands on suppliers to: reduce lead times for product delivery, which may require the company to increase inventories and could impact the timing of reported sales; improve customer service, such as with direct import programs, whereby product is supplied directly to retailers from third-party suppliers; and adopt new technologies related to inventory management such as radio frequency identification, otherwise known as rfid technology, which may have substantial implementation costs. the company cannot provide any assurance that it can continue to successfully meet the needs of its customers. a substantial decrease in sales to any of its major customers could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company's customers may further consolidate, which could materially adversely affect its sales and margins. the company's customers have steadily consolidated over the last two decades. the company expects any customers that consolidate will take actions to harmonize pricing from their suppliers, close retail outlets and rationalize their supply chain, which could adversely affect the company's business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that, following consolidation, 11 table of contents the company's large customers will continue to buy from the company across different product categories or geographic regions, or at the same levels as prior to consolidation, which could negatively impact the company's financial results. further, if the consolidation trend continues, it could result in future pricing and other competitive pressures that could reduce the company's sales and margins and have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company's plans to continue to improve productivity and reduce complexity and costs may not be successful, which would materially adversely affect its ability to compete. the company's success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline or redeploy nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building, including advertising and promotion. the company is currently in the process of implementing project renewal and delivering the cost synergies related to the acquisition of jarden. both efforts are global initiatives designed to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in the company's most significant growth platforms. project renewal and the company's cost saving plans associated with the jarden integration may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not result in, in full or in part, the positive effects anticipated. in addition, such initiatives require the company to implement a significant amount of organizational change, which could have a negative impact on employee engagement, divert management's attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, impact the company's ability to retain key employees, cause disruptions in the company's day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on the company's financial results. it is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future. if the company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the company's ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted. the company's strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. its long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products and line extensions that create demand. new product development and commercialization efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. these risks include the costs involved, such as development and commercialization, product development or launch delays, and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance or growth in sales or operating income. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company's products. in addition, sales generated by new products or line extensions could cause a decline in sales of the company's existing products. if new product development and commercialization efforts are not successful, the company's financial results could be adversely affected. if the company does not continue to develop and maintain leading brands or realize the anticipated benefits of increased advertising and promotion spend, its operating results may suffer. the company's ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain leading brands so that the company's retailer and other customers will need the company's products to meet consumer demand. leading brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to continue to increase its expenditures for advertising and promotion and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the initiatives may not deliver the anticipated results and the results of such initiatives may not cover the costs of the increased investment. the company incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the jarden acquisition which could materially adversely affect the company and its financial position, including decreasing its business flexibility and increasing its borrowing costs. the company incurred an additional $6.5 billion of debt (excluding approximately $4.1 billion of jarden debt refinanced in connection with the acquisition) in connection with the completion of the jarden acquisition. following completion of the jarden acquisition, the company substantially increased its debt compared to its recent historical levels. this increased level of debt will increase the company's interest expense and could have the effect, among other things, of reducing the company's flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. in addition, if the company is unable to timely reduce its level of indebtedness, the company will be subject to increased demands on its cash resources, which could increase its total debt-to-capitalization ratios, decrease its interest coverage ratios, result in a breach of covenants or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the company. 12 table of contents an increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business. while the vast majority of the company's debt is fixed, fluctuations in interest rates can increase borrowing costs on the portion that is variable and interest rate increases on this portion of the company's debt could have a material adverse effect on our business. in response to the last global economic recession, extraordinary monetary policy actions of the u.s. federal reserve and other central banking institutions, including the utilization of quantitative easing, were taken to create and maintain a low interest rate environment. however, in december 2015, the u.s. federal reserve raised its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point for the first time since 2006, and in december 2016, the u.s. federal reserve again raised its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point. while it is unclear whether such action suggests a change in previous monetary policy positions, any such change or market expectation of such change may result in significantly higher long-term interest rates. such a transition may be abrupt and may, among other things, reduce the availability and/or increase the costs of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness. if the company is unable to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses, the company's future growth and profitability could be adversely impacted. the company's ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully remain important factors in the company's future growth. in december 2016, the company announced the acquisition of sistema plastics, a new zealand-based provider of food storage containers primarily under the sistema brand. in january 2017, the company completed the acquisition of smith mountain industries, a provider of home fragrance products, primarily under the woodwick candle brand, and in april 2016, the company completed the acquisition of jarden corporation, which had recently acquired jostens, inc. and waddington group inc. the company's ability to successfully integrate these or any other acquired business is dependent upon its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, integrate and manage product lines that have been acquired, obtain anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, assume unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized or known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, and manage unanticipated demands on the company's management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. furthermore, the company's ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the company's financial position and access to credit markets. in addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the company's borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the company's future access to capital. the company may not successfully manage these or other risks it may encounter in acquiring and integrating a business or product line, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. circumstances associated with divestitures and product line exits could adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. the company continually evaluates the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products. in june 2016, the company completed the sale of its d cor business, which comprises its levolor and kirsch window coverings brands. during 2016, the company entered into an agreement to sell its tools business, which comprises the irwin , lenox , and hilmor tm brands, and announced its intention to divest several other businesses and brands, including its winter sports business, including the v lkl and k2 brands and the rubbermaid consumer storage totes business. the company may decide to sell or discontinue other businesses or products in the future based on an evaluation of performance and strategic fit. a decision to divest or discontinue a business or product may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner and prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company's business; and the potential loss of key employees. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or exiting product lines, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. the company's operating results can be adversely affected by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services. pricing and availability of raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services for use in the company's businesses can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond its control, including general, domestic and international economic 13 table of contents conditions, labor costs, production levels, competition, consumer demand, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. this volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials, energy, transportation and other supplies and services for the company, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company's success is dependent, in part, on its continued ability to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts, sales price adjustments and certain derivative instruments, while maintaining and improving margins and market share. also, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. during periods of rising prices of raw materials, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to pass any portion of such increases on to customers. conversely, when raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent the company has existing inventory, lower margins. as a result, fluctuations in raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. some of the products we manufacture require particular types of glass, metal, paper, plastic, resin, wax, wood or other materials. supply shortages for a particular type of material can delay production or cause increases in the cost of manufacturing the company's products. this could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company's operations are dependent upon third-party vendors and suppliers whose failure to perform adequately could disrupt the company's business operations. the company currently sources a significant portion of parts and products from third parties. the company's ability to select and retain reliable vendors and suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products will impact the company's success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. in many cases, the company does not enter into long-term contracts with its primary vendors and suppliers, instead buying parts and products on a purchase order basis. as a result, the company may be subject to unexpected changes in pricing or supply of products. the ability of third-party suppliers to timely deliver finished goods and/or raw materials, and the ability of the company's own facilities to timely deliver finished goods, may be affected by events beyond their control, such as inability of shippers to timely deliver merchandise due to work stoppages or slowdowns, or significant weather and health conditions (such as sars) affecting manufacturers and/or shippers. any adverse change in the company's relationships with its third-party suppliers, the financial condition of third-party suppliers, the ability of third-party suppliers to manufacture and deliver outsourced parts or products on a timely basis, or the company's ability to import products from third-party suppliers or its own facilities could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the financial condition of the company's vendors and suppliers may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, such as credit difficulties and the uncertain macroeconomic environment in recent years. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. for example, the company's baby &amp; parenting business has a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of baby &amp; parenting's sales and which owns intellectual property rights in respect of many of those products. should any of these single source suppliers fail to manufacture sufficient supply, go out of business or discontinue a particular component, the company may not be able to find alternative vendors and suppliers in a timely manner, if at all. any inability of the company's vendors and suppliers to timely deliver quality parts and products or any unanticipated change in supply, quality or pricing of products could be disruptive and costly to the company. the company cannot assure you that it could quickly or effectively replace any of its suppliers if the need arose, and the company cannot assure you that it could retrieve tooling and molds possessed by any of its third-party suppliers. the company's dependence on these few suppliers could also adversely affect its ability to react quickly and effectively to changes in the market for its products. changes in foreign, cultural, political and financial market conditions could impair the company's international operations and financial performance. some of the company's operations are conducted or products are sold in countries where economic growth has slowed, such as brazil; or where economies have suffered economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation; or where the ability to repatriate funds has been significantly delayed or impaired. current government economic and fiscal policies in these economies, including stimulus measures and currency exchange rates and controls, may not be sustainable and, as a result, the company's sales or profits related to those countries may decline. the economies of other foreign countries important to the company's operations could also suffer slower economic growth or economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation in the future. the company's international operations (and particularly its business in emerging markets), including manufacturing and sourcing 14 table of contents operations (and the international operations of the company's customers), are subject to inherent risks which could adversely affect the company, including, among other things: protectionist policies restricting or impairing the manufacturing, sales or import and export of the company's products; new restrictions on access to markets; lack of developed infrastructure; inflation (including hyperinflation) or recession; devaluations or fluctuations in the value of currencies; changes in and the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, tax laws, accounting standards, trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements, environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws; social, political or economic instability; acts of war and terrorism; natural disasters or other crises; reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; increases in duties and taxation; restrictions on transfer of funds and/or exchange of currencies; expropriation of assets or forced relocations of operations; and other adverse changes in policies, including monetary, tax and/or lending policies, encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by host countries. should any of these risks occur, the company's ability to manufacture, source, sell or export its products or repatriate profits could be impaired; the company could experience a loss of sales and profitability from its international operations; and/or the company could experience a substantial impairment or loss of assets, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the company's business. the company has foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect the company's operating results, financial condition and liquidity. the financial position and results of operations of many of the company's international subsidiaries are initially recorded in various foreign currencies and then translated into u.s. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in the company's financial statements. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against these foreign currencies ordinarily has a negative impact on the company's reported sales, operating margin and operating income (and conversely, the weakening of the u.s. dollar has a positive impact). for the year ended december 31, 2016 , foreign currency unfavorably affected reported sales by $113.1 million compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 . the volatility of foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect the company's operating results. the margin impacts from changes in foreign currency are because the company's costs for produced and sourced products are largely denominated in u.s. dollars, and the company's international operations generally sell the company's products at prices denominated in local currencies. when local currencies decline in value relative to the u.s. dollar in the regions in which the company sells products whose costs are denominated in u.s. dollars, the company's international businesses would need to increase the local currency sales prices of the products and/or reduce costs through productivity or other initiatives in order to maintain the same level of profitability. the company may not be able to increase the selling prices of its products in its international businesses due to market dynamics, competition or otherwise and may not realize cost reductions through productivity or other initiatives. as a result, gross margins and overall operating results of the company's international businesses would be adversely affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens. the company has been adversely impacted by developments in venezuela, including the significant devaluations of the venezuelan bolivar that have occurred in recent years, the declining availability of u.s. dollars and the implementation of pricing and exchange controls in venezuela. as of december 31, 2015, the company determined that it no longer could exercise control over the operations of its venezuela subsidiary. accordingly, the company deconsolidated its venezuela subsidiary on december 31, 2015 and recorded a pretax charge of $172.7 million . future government actions, such as currency devaluations, import authorization controls, foreign exchange controls, price or profit controls or expropriation or other forms of government take-over, could adversely impact the company's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and footnote 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. 15 table of contents a failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on the company's business or reputation. the company relies extensively on information technology (it) systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting business. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: ordering and managing materials from suppliers; converting materials to finished products; shipping products to customers; marketing and selling products to consumers; collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and personal data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processes necessary to manage the company's business. increased it security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the company's it systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the company's data. the company's operations, especially its retail operations, involve the storage and transmission of employees', customers' and consumers' proprietary information, such as credit card and bank account numbers. the company's payment services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards or bank account information, identity theft or merchant fraud. if the it systems, networks or service providers relied upon fail to function properly, or if the company suffers a loss or disclosure of customers' and consumers' data, business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations, a risk of government enforcement action, litigation and possible liability, and reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely impact the company's results of operations and/or financial condition. as techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, the company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of the company's security occurs, the public perception of the effectiveness of the company's security measures could be harmed and the company could lose customers and consumers, which could adversely affect its business. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company's assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company's sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, a material adverse change in the company's relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company's stock price. the company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, the company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. the company's businesses and operations are subject to regulation in the u.s. and abroad. changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the company does business. this includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. accordingly, the company's ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal and environmental matters without significant liability could require the company to record significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the company's results. in addition, new regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis, significantly restrict the company's ability to sell certain products, or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. 16 table of contents as a u.s.-based multinational company, the company is also subject to tax regulations in the u.s. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. for example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the u.s. is not taxed in the u.s. until those earnings are actually repatriated or deemed repatriated. if these or other tax regulations should change, the company's financial results could be impacted. the company may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental remediation obligations. in addition to operational standards, environmental laws also impose obligations on various entities to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. accordingly, the company may be liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by the company, is a landfill or other location where it has disposed wastes, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to the company's ownership or operation of the property. given the nature of the past industrial operations conducted by the company and others at these properties, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination have been identified, even for those properties where an environmental site assessment has been conducted. we do not believe that any of the company's existing remediation obligations, including at third-party sites where it has been named a potentially responsible party, will have a material adverse effect upon its business, results of operations or financial condition. however, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities that may be material. see environmental matters under footnote 19 of the notes to the company's consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2016 for a further discussion of these and other environmental-related matters. the company may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. the company's success at implementing project renewal, the growth game plan, the integration of jarden and its future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. the company's success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the company can retain its key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. the resolution of the company's tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company's cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions outside the u.s. significant estimation and judgment are required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company's business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by various worldwide tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. the company's business involves the potential for product recalls, product liability and other claims against it, which could affect its earnings and financial condition. as a manufacturer and distributor of consumer products, the company is subject to the consumer products safety act of 1972, which empowers the consumer products safety commission to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. under certain circumstances, the consumer products safety commission could require the company to repurchase or recall one or more of its products. additionally, other laws and agencies, such as the national highway transportation safety administration, regulate certain consumer products sold by the company in the united states and abroad, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. any repurchase or recall of the company's products could be costly and damaging to the company's reputation. if the company were required to remove, or it voluntarily removed, its products from the market, the company's reputation could be tarnished and the company might have large quantities of finished products that it could not sell. the company also faces exposure to product liability claims in the event that one of its products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments or fines or penalties that may result from any governmental investigations, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company's reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company's products. although the company maintains product liability insurance in amounts that it believes are reasonable, that insurance is, in most cases, subject to large self-insured retentions for which the company is responsible, and the company cannot assure you that it 17 table of contents will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future or that product liability claims will not exceed the amount of insurance coverage. additionally, the company does not maintain product recall insurance. as a result, product recalls or product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company faces potential other types of litigation arising out of alleged defects in its products or otherwise, such as class action lawsuits. the company does not maintain insurance against many types of claims involving alleged defects in its products that do not involve personal injury or property damage. the company spends substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental and other applicable standards. however, compliance with these standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. as a result, these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company's product liability insurance program is an occurrence-based program based on its current and historical claims experience and the availability and cost of insurance. the company currently either self-insures or administers a high retention insurance program for most product liability risks. historically, product liability awards have rarely exceeded the company's individual per occurrence self-insured retention. the company cannot assure you, however, that its future product liability experience will be consistent with its past experience or that claims and awards subject to self-insured retention will not be material. see footnote 19 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2016 for a further discussion of these and other regulatory and litigation-related matters. if the company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect the company's market share and results of operations. the company's success with its proprietary products depends, in part, on its ability to protect its current and future technologies and products and to defend its intellectual property rights, including its patent and trademark rights. if the company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. the company holds numerous design and utility patents covering a wide variety of products. the company cannot be sure that it will receive patents for any of its patent applications or that any existing or future patents that it receives or licenses will provide competitive advantages for its products. the company also cannot be sure that competitors will not challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of any existing or future patents that the company receives or licenses. in addition, patent rights may not prevent competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to the company's products. a reduction in the company's credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, the company's cost of capital. the company's credit ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of its financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its debt obligations. the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. a downgrade by moody's investor services, inc. ( moody's ) or standard &amp; poor's ratings services ( standard &amp; poor's ), which would reduce the company's senior debt below investment-grade, would increase the company's borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the company's financial results. specifically, the interest rate payable on notes issued in march 2016 are subject to adjustment from time to time if either moody's or standard &amp; poor's downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) its rating assigned to the notes, though the interest on these notes will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in ratings by either credit rating agency), if such notes become rated baa1 or higher by moody's and bbb+ or higher by s&amp;p, in each case with stable or positive outlook. in addition, in the event of a reduction in credit rating, the company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company's short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would limit, or eliminate entirely, the company's access to the commercial paper market. the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company's securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company's earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company's pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company's pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore the company's estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted 18 table of contents by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company's required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company's pension and postretirement benefit plans are determined by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, expected health care costs, or mortality rates, the company's future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company's pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk in general, business enterprises can be exposed to market risks including fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices, and that can affect the cost of operating, investing and financing under those conditions. the company believes it has moderate exposure to these risks. the company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in these rates and prices. the company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable rate debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. as such, the company monitors the interest rate environment and uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk and price risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable interest rates while attempting to minimize interest costs. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately $1.2 billion of the company's debt carries a variable rate of interest either by nature or through the use of interest rate swaps. the remainder of the debt (approximately $10.7 billion ) carries a fixed rate of interest. based upon the company's debt structure at december 31, 2016 , a hypothetical 1% increase in these interest rates would increase interest expense by approximately $11.8 million and decrease the fair values of debt by approximately $711.2 million . 54 table of contents while the company transacts business predominantly in u.s. dollars and most of its revenues are collected in u.s. dollars, a substantial portion of the company's operating costs are denominated in other currencies, such as the brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro, japanese yen and mexican peso. changes in the relation of these and other currencies to the u.s. dollar will affect company's sales and profitability and could result in exchange losses. for 2016 , approximately 28% of the company's sales were denominated in foreign currencies, the most significant of which were: european euro-approximately 9.0% ; and canadian dollar-approximately 5.4% . the primary purpose of the company's foreign currency hedging activities is to mitigate the foreign currency exchange rate exposure on the cash flows related to forecasted inventory purchases and sales. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material effect on foreign currency gains and losses related to the foreign currency derivatives or the net fair value of the company's foreign currency derivatives. the company is exposed to the price risk that the rising cost of commodities has on certain of its raw materials. as such, the company monitors the commodities markets and from time to time the company enters into commodity-based derivatives in order to mitigate the impact that the rising price of these commodities has on the cost of certain of the company's raw materials. a hypothetical 10% change in the commodity prices underlying the derivatives would not have a material effect on the related gains and losses included in the company's results of operations. in this sensitivity analysis, all other assumptions are constant and assumes that a change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not impact another currency's rates relative to the u.s. dollar. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to its derivative financial instruments, all of which are highly rated institutions; however, the company does not anticipate non-performance by such counterparties. the company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 55 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors the ownership of the company's securities involves a number of risks and uncertainties. potential investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this annual report on form 10-k before deciding whether to invest in the company's securities. the company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the risks described below are not the only ones facing the company. additional risks that are currently unknown to the company or that the company currently considers immaterial may also impair its business or adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world. the company's business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, latin america and asia. these sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, can be affected by specific events or general economic conditions, including worldwide or country-specific economic instability. for example, uncertainty over the terms of the united kingdom's departure from the european union, commonly known as brexit, has caused political and economic uncertainty in the united kingdom and the rest of europe, which could harm consumer demand and ultimately adversely impact the company's business. continuing challenging global economic conditions, particularly outside of the u.s., and potential volatility in domestic and/or foreign equity markets, may result in considerable pressure on consumer demand, which may have an adverse effect on demand for the company's products, as well as its financial condition and results of operations. the company could also be negatively impacted by economic crises in specific countries or regions. such events 5 table of contents could negatively impact the company's overall liquidity and/or create significant credit risks relative to its local customers and depository institutions. consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of these factors could adversely impact the company's business. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers and e-commerce companies. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. a proliferation of digitally native brands has further intensified the competitive landscape. the company's principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, direct-to-consumer channels, specialty retailers and wholesalers, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. the dominant share of the market represented by these large retailers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, has contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, reducing inventory levels, demanding innovative new products and products tailored to each of their unique requirements, requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices in response to competitive, economic or other factors, and requiring product delivery with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands, typically at lower prices, that compete with the company's products. the combination of these market influences and retailer consolidation has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company's principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions. the intense competition in the retail and e-commerce sectors may result in a number of customers experiencing financial difficulty or failing in the future. for example, the company's results in 2018 were impacted negatively by the bankruptcy and liquidation of toys r' us. in particular, a loss of, or a failure by, another one of the company's large customers could adversely impact the company's sales and operating cash flows. to address these challenges, the company must be able to respond to competitive factors, and the failure to respond effectively could result in a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. the company's sales are dependent on purchases from several large customers and any significant decline in these purchases or pressure from these customers to reduce prices could have a negative effect on the company's future financial performance. the company's customer base is relatively fragmented. although the company has long-established relationships with many customers, the company generally does not have any long-term supply or binding contracts or guarantees of minimum purchases with its largest customers. purchases by these customers are generally made using individual purchase orders. as a result, these customers may cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, delay purchases for a number of reasons beyond the company's control or change other terms of the business relationship. significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in purchases or changes in business practices by customers could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, because many of the company's costs are fixed, a reduction in customer demand due to decreased sales to end customers could have an adverse effect on the company's gross profit margins and operating income. the retail landscape in many of the company's markets continues to be impacted by the rapid growth of e-commerce retailers, changing consumer preferences (as consumers increasingly shop on-line) and the emergence of alternative retail channels, such as subscription services and direct-to-consumer businesses. the rapid growth in e-commerce and emergence of alternative retail channels may adversely affect the company's relationships with its key retailers, whereby the number of products it sells will no longer be a reliable indicator of the amount of future business the company can expect. the company depends on a continuous flow of new orders from large, high-volume retail customers; however, the company may be unable to continually meet the needs of these customers. retailers are increasing their demands on suppliers to: reduce lead times for product delivery, which may require the company to increase inventories and could impact the timing of reported sales; improve customer service, such as with direct import programs, whereby product is supplied directly to retailers from third-party suppliers; and 6 table of contents adopt technologies related to inventory management such as radio frequency identification, otherwise known as rfid technology, which may have substantial implementation costs. the company cannot provide any assurance that it can continue to successfully meet the needs of its customers or that customer demand will remain consistent. a substantial decrease in sales to any of its major customers and an inability to adapt to the emergence of alternative retail channels could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company's customers may further consolidate, which could materially adversely affect the company's sales and margins. the company's customers have steadily consolidated over the last two decades. the company expects any customers that consolidate will take actions to harmonize pricing from their suppliers, close retail outlets, reduce inventory, and rationalize their supply chain, which could adversely affect the company's business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that, following consolidation, the company's large customers will continue to buy from the company across different product categories or geographic regions, or at the same levels as prior to consolidation, which could negatively impact the company's financial results. further, if the consolidation trend continues, it could result in future pricing and other competitive pressures that could reduce the company's sales and margins and have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. if the company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the company's ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted. the company's strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. its long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products and line extensions that create demand. the company's ability to quickly innovate in order to adapt its products to meet changing consumer demands is essential, especially in light of e-commerce significantly reducing the barriers for even small competitors to quickly introduce new brands and products directly to consumers. new product development and commercialization efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. these risks include the costs involved, such as development and commercialization, product development or launch delays, and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance or growth in sales or operating income. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company's products. in addition, sales generated by new products or line extensions could cause a decline in sales of the company's existing products. if new product development and commercialization efforts are not successful, the company's financial results could be adversely affected. if the company does not continue to develop and maintain leading brands or realize the anticipated benefits of increased advertising and promotion spend, its operating results may suffer. the company's ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain leading brands so that the company's retail and other customers will need the company's products to meet consumer demand. leading brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to increase its expenditures for advertising and promotion and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the initiatives may not deliver the anticipated results and the results of such initiatives may not cover the costs of the increased investment. circumstances associated with divestitures and product line exits could adversely affect the company's results of operations and financial condition. although the atp is now completed, the company may decide to sell or discontinue other businesses or products in the future based on an evaluation of performance and strategic fit. divestitures or discontinuations of businesses or products may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company's results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner, and prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. past and future divestitures and business discontinuations also involve additional risks, including the following: 7 table of contents difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company's business; the potential loss of key employees; and disputes or litigation with the buyers. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or exiting product lines, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. failure to grow the company's e-commerce business, and the cost of its increasing e-commerce investments, may materially adversely affect the company's market position, net sales and financial performance. the retail industry is rapidly evolving and consumers are increasingly embracing shopping on-line and through mobile commerce applications. as a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate. at the same time, the portion of retail business at traditional brick and mortar stores and shopping centers is decreasing. the company's strategy includes investments in e-commerce, and investments in technology initiatives. if these investments fail to adequately or effectively allow the company to grow its e-commerce business, maintain or grow its overall market position or otherwise benefit the company, the company's market position, net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, a greater concentration of e-commerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of sales by the company's other customers, which could, if not offset by a greater increase in e-commerce sales, materially adversely affect the business of the company. furthermore, the cost of certain e-commerce and technology investments may adversely impact the company's financial performance in the short-term and may adversely impact its financial performance over the longer term. there can be no assurance that investments in e-commerce infrastructure and technology will result in increased sales, through e-commerce or otherwise. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, and our failure to meet our reporting and financial obligations, which in turn could have a negative impact on our financial condition. as further detailed in item 9a below, management has identified material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. one material weakness was disclosed in the company's 2018 annual report on form 10-k, filed on march 4, 2019 and subsequent quarterly reports on form 10-q, related to accounting for the impact of divestitures. the company also discovered a material weakness in december 2019 related to accounting for certain tax matters. these control deficiencies could have resulted in a misstatement of accounts and disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. accordingly, the company's management has determined that these control deficiencies constitute material weaknesses. under standards established by the public company accounting oversight board (the pcaob ), a material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. to remediate the material weakness in accounting for divestitures, the company has completed the documentation and testing of the following corrective actions: enhanced the level of review of deferred tax balances for each business that is categorized as held for sale considering the form of divestiture transaction; supplemented the review of deferred tax balances by legal entity and account to ensure proper presentation for financial reporting purposes; enhanced the review of the intra-period tax allocation between continuing and discontinued operations; enhanced the review of the calculation of historical and current tax basis utilized in the gain/loss calculation; enhanced the held for sale footnote reconciliation process; and enhanced the review and approval process for the underlying data utilized in determining the estimated fair value and expected form of sale reflected in the company's impairment test. though management has effectively and successfully operated the non-tax components of the aforementioned remediation plan for three consecutive quarters in 2019, this material weakness will not be considered remediated until each component of 8 table of contents management's remedial actions operate for a sufficient period of time and management has concluded, through testing of divestiture transactions or otherwise, that these controls are operating effectively. during the course of 2019, management made certain changes as part of the remediation of the material weakness related to accounting for divestitures, which relate to the material weakness for accounting for income taxes and which the company believes will contribute to the remediation efforts of the material weakness. these changes include: hiring experienced resources with substantive backgrounds in accounting for income taxes as well as u.s. multinational public company experience; and engaging a third party to review the company's tax provision processes, identify inefficiencies, and recommend process enhancements. subsequent to the identification of the material weakness for accounting for income taxes, management began to implement a tax reporting software solution that has enhanced our visibility of uncertain tax positions in order to remediate the material weakness. the company plans to implement the following additional steps to remediate the material weakness for accounting for income taxes: implementing enhancements and process improvements to the quarterly and annual provision with respect of uncertain tax positions and state income taxes; and undertaking extensive training for key personnel in each reporting jurisdiction on tax reporting requirements and our redesigned processes; and implementing a tax reporting software solution that will enhance our state income tax reporting capabilities. while management believes that it now has the requisite personnel to operate the controls in the tax function and the remediation actions described above should remediate the material weakness with respect to accounting for income taxes, as management continues the remediation process, it may determine certain additional enhancements may be necessary. this material weakness will not be considered remediated until the applicable remediated controls operate for a sufficient period of time and management has concluded, through testing, that these controls are operating effectively. the company will monitor the effectiveness of its remediation plan and will refine its remediation plan as appropriate. any failure to remediate the material weaknesses, or the identification of new material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements that may continue undetected, negatively impact the public perception of the company and our securities and cause us to fail to meet our reporting and financial obligations or incur significant additional costs to remediate the material weakness, each of which could harm our ability to raise capital on favorable terms in the future or otherwise have a negative impact on our financial condition. the company has substantial indebtedness, which could materially and adversely affect the company and its financial position, including decreasing its business flexibility, impacting its ratings and increasing its borrowing costs. at december 31, 2019, the company had $5.7 billion in outstanding debt, reflecting a reduction of approximately $1.3 billion versus the end of 2018. the company's substantial indebtedness has had, and could continue to have, important consequences for the company, including: requiring the company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, which reduces the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, future acquisitions, dividends, repurchases of the company's common stock and other general corporate purposes; limiting the company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, adverse business and economic conditions or changes in the company's business and the industries in which it operates; placing the company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and limiting, along with the financial and non-financial covenants in the company's debt documents, its ability to borrow additional funds. in addition, if the company is unable to timely reduce its level of indebtedness, the company will be subject to increased demands on its cash resources, which could increase its total debt-to-capitalization ratios, decrease its interest coverage ratios, lower its credit ratings, result in a breach of covenants or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the company going forward. 9 table of contents an increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. while the vast majority of the company's debt is fixed, fluctuations in interest rates can increase borrowing costs on the portion that is variable, and interest rate increases on this portion of the company's debt could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. indeed, increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability and cash flows. in response to the last global economic recession, extraordinary monetary policy actions of the u.s. federal reserve and other central banking institutions, including the utilization of quantitative easing, were taken to create and maintain a low interest rate environment. however, the u.s. federal reserve raised its benchmark interest rate nine times since december 2015, including four times in 2018, each time by a quarter of a percentage point, before reducing interest rates in 2019 three times. any change in the fiscal policies or stated target interest rates of the u.s. federal reserve or other central banking institutions, or market expectations of such change, are difficult to predict and may result in significantly higher long-term interest rates. such a transition may be abrupt and may, among other things, reduce the availability and/or increase the costs of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness. an increase in interest rates may also occur from changes in regulatory standards or industry practices, such as the contemplated transition away from the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) as a benchmark reference for short-term interest rates. such a transition may result in the usage of a higher reference rate for our variable rate debt. the u.s. federal reserve has sponsored the alternative reference rates committee ( arrc ), which serves as a forum to coordinate and track planning as market participants currently using libor consider (a) transitioning to alternative reference rates where it is deemed appropriate and (b) addressing risks in legacy contracts language given the possibility that libor might stop. on april 3, 2018, the u.s. federal reserve began publishing three new reference rates, including the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ). arrc has recommended sofr as the alternative to libor and published fallback interest rate consultations for public comment and a paced transition plan to sofr use. the financial stability board has taken an interest in libor and possible replacement indices as a matter of risk management. the international organisation of securities commissions, or iosco, has been active in this area and is expected to call on market participants to have backup options if a reference rate, such as libor, ceases publication. the international swaps and derivatives association has published guidance on interest rate benchmarks and alternatives in july and august 2018. it cannot be predicted whether sofr or another index or indices will become a market standard that replaces libor, and if so, the effects on our customers, or our future results of operations or financial condition. governmental investigations or actions by other third parties could have a material adverse effect on management and the company's business operations. the company is subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. in the ordinary course of business, the company is also subject to formal and informal regulatory and governmental examinations, subpoenas, requests for documents, testimony or information, inquiries, investigations, threatened legal actions and proceedings. in particular, on january 31, 2020, the company received a subpoena from the sec primarily relating to its sales practices and certain accounting matters. see footnote 19 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. responding to governmental investigations, voluntary document requests, subpoenas or actions by regulatory bodies may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to the company's operations and could divert the attention of management and key personnel from the company's business operations. the impact of these inquiries and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position and results of operations. the company's businesses and operations are subject to regulation in the u.s. and abroad. changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the company does business. this includes changes in environmental, data privacy, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. accordingly, the company's ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal and environmental matters without significant liability could require the company to record significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the company's results. in addition, new regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis, significantly restrict the company's ability to sell certain products, or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the company's results of operations. as a u.s.-based multinational company, the company is also subject to tax regulations in the u.s. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. for example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the u.s. may not be taxed in the u.s. until those earnings are actually repatriated or deemed repatriated. if these or other tax regulations should change, the company's financial results could be impacted. 10 table of contents on june 18, 2019, the u.s. treasury and the internal revenue service released temporary regulations under irc section 245a ( section 245a ) as enacted by the 2017 u.s. tax reform legislation ( 2017 tax reform ) and irc section 954(c)(6) (the temporary regulations ) to apply retroactively to the date the 2017 tax reform was enacted. the temporary regulations seek to limit the 100% dividends received deduction permitted by section 245a for certain dividends received from controlled foreign corporations and to limit the applicability of the look-through exception to foreign personal holding company income for certain dividends received from controlled foreign corporations. before the retroactive application of the temporary regulations, the company benefited in 2018 from both the 100% dividends received deduction and the look-through exception to foreign personal holding company income. the company has analyzed the temporary regulations and concluded that the relevant temporary regulations were not validly issued. therefore, the company has not accounted for the effects of the temporary regulations in its consolidated financial statements for the period ending december 31, 2019. the company believes it has strong arguments in favor of its position and believes it has met the more likely than not recognition threshold that its position will be sustained. however, due to the inherent uncertainty involved in challenging the validity of regulations, as well as a potential litigation process, there can be no assurances that the relevant temporary regulations will be invalidated or that a court of law will rule in favor of the company. if the company's position on the temporary regulations is not sustained, the company would be required to recognize an income tax expense of approximately $180 million to $220 million related to an income tax benefit from the 2018 year that was recorded based on regulations in existence at the time. in addition, the company may be required to pay any applicable interest and penalties. the company intends to vigorously defend its position. the company's operating results can be adversely affected by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services, as well as the impact of tariffs. the company's success is dependent, in part, on its continued ability to reduce its exposure to increases in the cost of raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts, sales price adjustments and certain derivative instruments, while maintaining and improving margins and market share. also, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. during periods of rising prices of raw materials, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to pass any portion of such increases on to customers. conversely, when raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent the company has existing inventory, lower margins. as a result, fluctuations in raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. some of the products the company manufactures require particular types of glass, metal, paper, plastic, resin, wax, wood or other materials. supply shortages for a particular type of material can delay production or cause increases in the cost of manufacturing the company's products. pricing and availability of finished goods, raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services for use in the company's businesses can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond its control, including general, domestic and international economic conditions, natural disasters, labor costs, production levels, competition, consumer demand, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. specifically, evolving trade policies could continue to make sourcing products from foreign countries difficult and costly, as the company sources a significant amount of its products from outside of the united states. considerable political uncertainty exists in the united states and abroad that could result in continuing changes to the national and international trade policies around which the company has built its sourcing practices and operations. given the company's reliance upon non-domestic suppliers, any significant changes to the united states trade policies (and those of other countries in response) may cause a material adverse effect on its ability to source products from other countries or significantly increase the costs of obtaining such products, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial results. for example, in march 2018, the current presidential administration-imposed tariffs of 25% on steel imports and 10% on aluminum imports. these tariffs, which remain in effect, apply to imported steel and aluminum products from most of the world. in addition, the current presidential administration imposed additional tariffs of 25% on many chinese-origin goods effective july 6, 2018 and august 23, 2018, and imposed additional tariffs of 10% on a substantial number of additional chinese-origin goods ( list 3 products ) effective september 24, 2018 (the 10% tariff on list 3 products increased to 25% on may 10, 2019). the current presidential administration also imposed 15% tariffs on additional chinese-origin goods, list 4a, on september 1, 2019. the phase 1 agreement signed on january 15, 2020, reduced list 4a from 15% to 7.5% (effective february 14, 2020) and suspended tariffs under list 4b at 15%, which was due to go into effect on december 15, 2019. in addition to tariffs on chinese-origin goods, on october 18, 2019, the current presidential administration imposed additional tariffs on certain products imported into the united states from the european union. any extension of tariffs to additional categories of goods or to additional importers or exporters or additional countries of origin could significantly increase the cost of some our products and reduce our margins. the company will continue to work to mitigate the tariff exposure, in part through pricing, productivity and in some cases relocation. however, there can be no assurance these mitigation efforts will be successful. 11 table of contents the company's operations are dependent upon third-party vendors and suppliers whose failure to perform adequately could disrupt the company's business operations. the company currently sources a significant portion of parts and products from third parties. the company's ability to select and retain reliable vendors and suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products will impact the company's success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. in many cases, the company does not enter into long-term contracts with its primary vendors and suppliers, instead buying parts and products on a purchase order basis. as a result, the company may be subject to unexpected changes in pricing or supply of products. the ability of third-party suppliers to timely deliver finished goods and/or raw materials, and the ability of the company's own facilities to timely deliver finished goods, may be affected by events beyond their control, such as inability of shippers to timely deliver merchandise due to work stoppages or slowdowns, or significant weather and health conditions affecting manufacturers and/or shippers. any adverse change in the company's relationships with its third-party suppliers, the financial condition of third-party suppliers, the ability of third-party suppliers to manufacture and deliver outsourced parts or products on a timely basis, or the company's ability to import products from third-party suppliers or its own facilities could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the financial condition of the company's vendors and suppliers may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, such as credit difficulties and the uncertain macroeconomic environment in recent years. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. for example, certain businesses in the baby business unit have a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of their sales and which owns intellectual property rights in respect of many of those products. should any of these single source suppliers fail to manufacture sufficient supply, go out of business or discontinue a particular component, the company may not be able to find alternative vendors and suppliers in a timely manner, if at all. any inability of the company's vendors and suppliers to timely deliver quality parts and products or any unanticipated change in supply, quality or pricing of products could be disruptive and costly to the company. the company cannot assure you that it could quickly or effectively replace any of its suppliers if the need arose, and the company cannot assure you that it could retrieve tooling and molds possessed by any of its third-party suppliers. the company's dependence on these few suppliers could also adversely affect its ability to react quickly and effectively to changes in the market for its products. changes in foreign, cultural, political and financial market conditions could impair the company's international operations and financial performance. some of the company's operations are conducted or products are sold in countries where economic growth has slowed, such as brazil; or where economies have suffered economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation; or where the ability to repatriate funds has been significantly delayed or impaired. current government economic and fiscal policies in these economies, including stimulus measures and currency exchange rates and controls, may not be sustainable and, as a result, the company's sales or profits related to those countries may decline. the economies of other foreign countries important to the company's operations could also suffer slower economic growth or economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation in the future. the company's international operations (and particularly its business in emerging markets), including manufacturing and sourcing operations (and the international operations of the company's customers), are subject to inherent risks which could adversely affect the company, including, among other things: protectionist policies restricting or impairing the manufacturing, sales or import and export of the company's products, including tariffs and countermeasures; new restrictions on access to markets; lack of developed infrastructure; inflation (including hyperinflation) or recession; devaluations or fluctuations in the value of currencies; changes in and the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, tax laws, accounting standards, trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements, environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws; social, political or economic instability; acts of war and terrorism; natural disasters or other crises; reduced protection of intellectual property rights; increases in duties and taxation; 12 table of contents restrictions on transfer of funds and/or exchange of currencies; expropriation of assets or forced relocations of operations; and other adverse changes in policies, including monetary, tax and/or lending policies, encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by host countries. in addition, our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics, which could harm our business and cause our operational results to suffer. for example, in december 2019 and january 2020, an outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus in wuhan, china, has resulted in travel disruption and an impact on corporate operations in china. at this point, the exact extent to which the coronavirus may impact our supply chain or results of operations is uncertain; however, our revenues may be impacted in the first half of 2020. further, on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union. because of the referendum, the british government began negotiating the terms of the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union. while the european union and united kingdom reached an agreement on brexit in october 2019, and the united kingdom exited the european union on january 31, 2020, details of the new trade and regulatory relationship are still to be finalized. there may be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the united kingdom and european union countries and increased regulatory complexities in the future. these changes could cause disruptions to trade and free movement of goods, services, and people to and from the united kingdom, disruptions to the workforce or the workforce of the company's suppliers or business partners, increased foreign exchange volatility with respect to the british pound and additional legal, political, and economic uncertainty. the foregoing could create uncertainty surrounding the company's business and the business of existing and future customers and suppliers, which could increase the cost of some of the company's products, thereby reducing its margins. further, the foregoing risks could have a significant adverse impact on the company's ability to commercialize its products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. the company's small sales volume in some countries, relative to some multinational and local competitors, could exacerbate such risks. depending on the extent to which the company may be required to make material changes to its european operations beyond those currently planned, the company's results of operations and business prospects could be negatively affected. should any of these risks occur, the company's ability to manufacture, source, sell or export its products or repatriate profits could be impaired; the company could experience a loss of sales and profitability from its international operations; and/or the company could experience a substantial impairment or loss of assets, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the company's business. the company is exposed to both foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect the company's operating results, financial condition and liquidity. the reporting currency for the company's financial statements is the u.s. dollar and it has substantial assets, liabilities, revenues and costs denominated in currencies other than u.s. dollars. the preparation of the company's consolidated financial statements requires translation of those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into u.s. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates. consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar versus other currencies will affect the amount of these items in the company's consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. these translations could result in significant changes to the company's results of operations from period to period. although the company may employ, at times, a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities, it cannot guarantee that such risk management strategies will be effective, and its financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, foreign currency transaction risk arises when the company and its subsidiaries enter into transactions where the settlement occurs in a currency other than its functional currency. exchange differences (gains and losses) arising on the settlement of monetary items or on translation of monetary items at rates different from those at which they were translated on initial recognition during the period or in previous financial statements are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which they arise. although the company may employ, at times, a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of foreign currency transaction risk, including the hedging of forecasted cash inflows and outflows, it cannot guarantee that such risk management strategies will be effective, and its financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and footnote 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. 13 table of contents a cyber-attack or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on the company's business or reputation. the company relies extensively on information technology ( it ) systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting business. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: ordering and managing materials from suppliers; converting materials to finished products; shipping products to customers; marketing and selling products to consumers; collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and personal data, including data that may be subject to the general data protection regulation of the european union or the california consumer privacy act; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processes necessary to manage the company's business. increased it security threats and cyber-crime, including advanced persistent threats, computer viruses, ransomware, other types of malicious code, hacking, phishing and social engineering schemes designed to provide access to the company's networks or data, pose a potential risk to the security of the company's it systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the company's data. cyber threats are becoming more sophisticated, are constantly evolving and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of expertise and motives, and this increases the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. as techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, the company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. furthermore, the company's relationships with, and access provided to, third parties and their vendors may create difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures or fully mitigating harms after an attack or breach occurs. the company cannot guarantee that its security efforts will prevent attacks and resulting breaches or breakdowns of the company's, or its third-party service providers', databases or systems. the company's operations, especially its retail operations, involve the storage and transmission of employees', customers' and consumers' proprietary information, such as credit card and bank account numbers. the company's payment services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards or bank account information, identity theft or merchant fraud. if the it systems, networks or service providers relied upon fail to function properly, or if the company suffers a loss or disclosure of customers' and consumers' data, business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations, a risk of government enforcement action, litigation and possible liability, and reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely impact the company's results of operations and/or financial condition. in addition, if the company's service providers, suppliers or customers experience a breach or unauthorized disclosure or system failure, their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which may result in a disruption in the company's supply chain or reduced customer orders or other business operations, which would adversely affect the company. the company is subject to laws of various countries where it operates or does business related to solicitation, collection, processing, transferring, storing or use of consumer, customer, vendor or employee information or related data, including the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which went into effect in may 2018, and the california consumer privacy act of 2018 ( ccpa ), which goes into effect on january 1, 2020. the changes introduced by the gdpr and the ccpa increase the complexity of regulations enacted to protect business and personal data, subject the company to additional costs and have required, and may in the future require, costly changes to the company's security systems, policies, procedures and practices. 14 table of contents continued declines in the future expected cash flows for the company's businesses or changes to underlying assumptions used to calculate fair value could result in additional impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results of operations. the company is required under u.s. gaap to review its amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, and are also required to conduct impairment tests on goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or more frequently, if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or that an other-than-temporary impairment exists. during the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, the company recorded non-cash impairment charges related to goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles of $1.2 billion and $8.3 billion , respectively, in continuing operations and $112.1 million and $1.5 billion , respectively, in discontinued operations. future events or factors may occur that would adversely affect the fair value of the company's assets and require impairment charges. such events or factors may include, but are not limited to, divestitures of certain businesses, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company's sales and customer base, a material adverse change in the company's relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company's stock price. in the event any such impairment indicators become known or are present, the company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. given the company's impairment charges in 2019 and 2018, there is minimal difference between the estimated fair values and the carrying values of some of the company's reporting units and intangible assets, increasing the possibility of future impairment charges. unfavorable shifts in industry-wide demand for the company's products could result in inventory valuation risk. the company evaluates its ending inventories for excess quantities, impairment of value, and obsolescence. this evaluation includes analysis of sales levels by product and projections of future demand based upon input received from our customers, sales team, and management. if inventories on hand are in excess of demand or slow moving, appropriate write-downs may be recorded. in addition, the company writes off inventories that are considered obsolete based upon changes in customer demand, product design changes that result in existing inventory obsolescence, or new product introductions, which eliminate demand for existing products. remaining inventory balances are adjusted to approximate net realizable market value. if future demand or market conditions are less favorable than the company's estimates, inventory write-downs may be required. the company cannot be certain that obsolete or excess inventories, which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for its products, will not affect it beyond the inventory charges that have already been recorded. the company may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental remediation obligations. in addition to operational standards, environmental laws also impose obligations on various entities to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. accordingly, the company may be liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by the company, is a landfill or other location where it has disposed of wastes, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to the company's ownership or operation of the property. given the nature of the past industrial operations conducted by the company and others at these properties, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination have been identified, even for those properties where an environmental site assessment has been conducted. the company does not believe that any of the company's existing remediation obligations, including at third-party sites where it has been named a potentially responsible party, will have a material adverse effect upon its business, results of operations or financial condition. however, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities that may be material. see environmental matters in footnote 19 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of these and other environmental-related matters. the company may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. the company's ability to successfully implement its turnaround plan and its future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. the company's success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. in 2019, the company hired a new president &amp; chief executive officer and a new chief human resources officer, and the current chief financial officer and chief accounting officer joined the company in december 2018 and march 2019, respectively. competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the company can retain its key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. 15 table of contents the resolution of the company's tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company's cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions internationally. significant estimation and judgment are required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company's business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by various worldwide tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. the company's business involves the potential for product recalls, product liability and other claims against it, which could affect its earnings and financial condition. as a manufacturer and distributor of consumer products, the company is subject to the u.s. consumer products safety act of 1972, as amended by the consumer product safety improvement act of 2008, which empowers the u.s. consumer products safety commission to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous, and similar laws under foreign jurisdictions. under certain circumstances, the consumer products safety commission or a comparable foreign agency could require the company to repurchase or recall one or more of its products. additionally, other laws and agencies, such as the national highway traffic safety administration, regulate certain consumer products sold by the company in the united states and abroad, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. from time to time, the company has announced voluntary recalls of its products where it has identified potential product safety concerns. for example, in 2019 the company announced a voluntary recall of the contigo gizmo product due to a concern over the silicone spout detaching from the nylon base, which resulted in significant product returns and other costs. any repurchase or recall of the company's products could be costly and damaging to the company's reputation. if the company were required to remove, or it voluntarily removed, its products from the market, the company's reputation could be tarnished and the company might have large quantities of finished products that it could not sell. the company also faces exposure to product liability claims in the event that one of its products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments or fines or penalties that may result from any governmental investigations, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company's reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company's products. similar to product liability claims, the company faces exposure to class action lawsuits related to the performance, safety or advertising of its products. such class action suits could result in substantial monetary judgments, injunctions related to the sale of products and potentially tarnish the company's reputation. although the company maintains product liability insurance in amounts that it believes are reasonable, that insurance is, in most cases, subject to large self-insured retentions for which the company is responsible, and the company cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future or that product liability claims will not exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the company does not maintain insurance against many types of claims involving alleged defects in its products that do not involve personal injury or property damage. additionally, the company does not maintain product recall insurance and may not have insurance coverage for claims asserted in class action lawsuits. as a result, product recalls, product liability claims and other product-related claims could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company spends substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental and other applicable standards. however, compliance with these standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. as a result, these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company's product liability insurance program is an occurrence-based program based on its current and historical claims experience and the availability and cost of insurance. the company currently either self-insures or administers a high retention insurance program for most product liability risks. historically, product liability awards have rarely exceeded the company's individual per occurrence self-insured retention. the company cannot give assurance, however, that its future product liability experience will be consistent with its past experience or that claims and awards subject to self-insured retention will not be material. see footnote 19 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of these and other regulatory and litigation-related matters. 16 table of contents if the company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect the company's market share and results of operations. the company's success with its proprietary products depends, in part, on its ability to protect its current and future technologies and products and to defend its intellectual property rights, including its patent and trademark rights. if the company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. the company holds numerous design and utility patents covering a wide variety of products. the company cannot be sure that it will receive patents for any of its patent applications or that any existing or future patents that it receives or licenses will provide competitive advantages for its products. the company also cannot be sure that competitors will not challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of any existing or future patents that the company receives or licenses. in addition, patent rights may not prevent competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to the company's products. if the company is found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others or cannot obtain necessary intellectual property rights from others, its competitiveness could be negatively impaired. if the company is found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, through the use of third-party marks, ideas, or technologies, such a finding could result in the need to cease use of such trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in the company's business, as well as the obligation to pay for past infringement. if rights holders are willing to permit the company to continue to use such intellectual property rights, they could require a payment of a substantial amount for continued use of those rights. either ceasing use or paying such amounts could cause the company to become less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if the company is not found to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, claims of infringement could adversely affect the company's business. the company could incur significant legal costs and related expenses to defend against such claims, and the company could incur significant costs associated with discontinuing to use, provide, or manufacture certain products, services or trademarks even if it is ultimately found not to have infringed such rights. reductions in the company's credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company's credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, the company's cost of capital. the company's credit ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of its financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its debt obligations. the credit ratings assigned to the company also impact the interest rates paid on short- and long-term financing. on february 20, 2019, fitch downgraded the company's long-term issuer default rating from bbb- to bb+ and the short-term issuer default rating to b from f3. further, on november 1, 2019, standard and poor's rating services ( standard &amp; poor's ) reduced the company's long-term issuer credit rating to bb+ from bbb-, resulting in a reduction of the company's senior debt below investment grade. this resulted in an increase in the cost of short-term and long-term borrowing for the company, including a twenty-five-basis point increase in the interest rate payable on approximately $4.5 billion of the company's senior notes issued in march 2016, for which the interest rates payable are subject to adjustment from time to time if either moody's or standard &amp; poor's downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) the rating assigned to such notes. while the interest on these notes will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in ratings by either credit rating agency) if such notes become rated baa1 or higher by moody's and bbb+ or higher by standard &amp; poor's financial services llc, in each case with stable or positive outlook, the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will be upgraded in the near future, or that, in the alternative, such ratings will not be further lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade by moody's investor services, inc. ( moody's ) which would further reduce the company's senior debt below investment-grade and would further increase the company's borrowing costs would continue to adversely affect the company's financial results. in addition, in the event of a future reduction in credit rating, the company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company's short-term ratings were to be further lowered, it would limit, or eliminate entirely, the company's access to the commercial paper market. if the company's access to commercial paper markets were to become limited, or eliminated entirely, and it were required to obtain short-term funding under its revolving credit facility or its other credit facilities, the company would face increased exposure to variable interest rates. 17 table of contents the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company's securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. see "factors affecting liquidity" in liquidity and capital resources in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company's earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company's pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company's pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore the company's estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company's required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company's pension and postretirement benefit plans are determined by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, expected health care costs, or mortality rates, the company's future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company's pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. damage to the company's reputation could have an adverse effect on the company's business . maintaining the company's strong reputation with consumers and suppliers worldwide is critical to the company's continued success. adverse publicity about the company, its brands, corporate practices, or any other issue that may be associated with the company, whether or not deserved, could jeopardize that reputation. such adverse publicity could come from traditional sources such as government investigations or public or private litigation, but may also arise from negative comments on social media regarding the company or its brands. additionally, due to the scale and scope of our business, we must rely on relationships with third parties, including our suppliers, distributors, contractors, and other external business partners, for certain functions. while we have policies and procedures for managing these relationships, they inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, governance, and compliance, thereby potentially increasing our reputational and legal risk. further, third parties sell counterfeit versions of our products, which are inferior or may pose safety risks. as a result, consumers of our brands could confuse our products with these counterfeit products, which could cause them to refrain from purchasing our brands in the future and in turn could impair our brand equity and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. finally, there has been an increased focus from certain investors, customers, consumers, employees, and other stakeholders concerning corporate citizenship and sustainability matters. from time to time, the company announces certain initiatives regarding its focus areas, which may include environmental matters, packaging, responsible sourcing and social investments. the company could fail, or be perceived to fail, in its achievement of such initiatives or it could fail in accurately reporting its progress on such initiatives and goals. in addition, the company could be criticized for the scope of such initiatives or perceived as not acting responsibly in connection with these matters. the company's reputation and business could be negatively impacted by such developments. damage to the company's reputation or a loss of consumer confidence in the company's brands could adversely affect the company's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as, require resources to repair the harm. 18 table of contents a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact the company's global business. at december 31, 2019, the company had approximately 30,000 employees worldwide, a portion of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries that have collective arrangements decreed by statute. the company periodically negotiates with certain unions and labor representatives and may be subject to work stoppages or may be unable to renew such collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. the company's plans to integrate its acquired businesses, improve productivity and reduce complexity and costs may not be successful, which would materially adversely affect its financial results. the company has pursued and may continue to pursue acquisitions of brands, businesses, or technologies from third parties. the company's success depends on its ability to integrate such acquired brands, businesses, or technologies, to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, to reduce supply chain costs and to streamline and redeploy nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building, including advertising and promotion. future acquisitions could result in substantial additional debt, exposure to contingent liabilities, such as litigation or earn-out obligations, the potential impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, or significant integration and transaction costs. any of these risks, should they materialize, could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. further, the company is in the midst of implementing various plans to reduce costs and improve cash flows. these efforts are designed to reduce the complexity of the organization, improve the company's cash conversion cycle and increase investment in the company's most significant growth platforms. these initiatives are further designed to reduce costs associated with direct materials, indirect expenses, and distribution and logistics, among other things. these global initiatives may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not result in, in full or in part, the positive effects anticipated. other major productivity, streamlining and divestment programs may also be required in the future. such initiatives may require the company to implement a significant amount of organizational change, which could have a negative impact on employee engagement, divert management's attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, impact the company's ability to retain key employees, cause disruptions in the company's day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on the company's financial results. the company's business could be negatively impacted as a result of stockholder activism or an unsolicited takeover proposal or a proxy contest. in recent years, proxy contests and other forms of stockholder activism have been directed against numerous public companies, including the company. during 2018, the company was the target of a proxy contest by a stockholder activist, which resulted in significant costs to the company. if a similar proposal were to be made again, the company would likely incur significant costs, which could have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. such proposals may disrupt the company's business and divert the attention of the company's management and employees, and any perceived uncertainties as to the company's future direction resulting from such a situation could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, the perception that the company needs a change in the direction of its business, or the perception that the company is unstable or lacks continuity, which may be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and make it more difficult for the company to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, which could adversely affect the company's business. in addition, actual or perceived actions of activist stockholders may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk in general, business enterprises can be exposed to market risks including fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices, and that can affect the cost of operating, investing and financing under those conditions. the company believes it has moderate exposure to these risks. the company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on hypothetical changes in rates and prices. the company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable rate debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. as such, the company monitors the interest rate environment and uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk and price risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable interest rates while attempting to minimize interest costs. at december 31, 2019, approximately $377 million of the company's debt carries a variable rate of interest either by nature or through the use of interest rate swaps. the remainder of the debt (approximately $5.3 billion ) carries a fixed rate of interest. based upon the company's debt structure at december 31, 2019, a hypothetical 1% increase in these interest rates would increase interest expense by approximately $3.8 million and decrease the fair value of debt by approximately $323 million . while the company transacts business predominantly in u.s. dollars and most of its revenues are collected in u.s. dollars, a substantial portion of the company's operating costs are denominated in other currencies, such as the brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, european euro, japanese yen and mexican peso. changes in the relation of these and other currencies to the u.s. dollar will affect company's sales and profitability and could result in exchange losses. for 2019, approximately 33% of the company's sales were denominated in foreign currencies, the most significant of which were: european euro, approximately 10% ; and canadian dollar, approximately 4% . the primary purpose of the company's foreign currency hedging activities is to mitigate the foreign currency exchange rate exposure on the cash flows related to forecasted inventory purchases and sales. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material effect on foreign currency gains and losses related to the foreign currency derivatives or the net fair value of the company's foreign currency derivatives. the company is exposed to the price risk that the rising cost of commodities has on certain of its raw materials. as such, the company monitors the commodities markets and from time to time the company enters into commodity-based derivatives in order to mitigate the impact that the rising price of these commodities has on the cost of certain of the company's raw materials. a hypothetical 10% change in the commodity prices underlying the derivatives would not have a material effect on the related gains and losses included in the company's results of operations. in this sensitivity analysis, all other assumptions are constant and assumes that a change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not impact another currency's rates relative to the u.s. dollar. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to its derivative financial instruments, all of which are highly rated institutions; however, the company does not anticipate non-performance by such counterparties. the company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 51 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ---------------------------------------------------------- the information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled "market risk" in the company's management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition (part ii, item 7). 48quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk -------- ---------------------------------------------------------- the information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled "market risk" in the company's management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition (part ii, item 7). 46quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in market prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company primary market risks are foreign exchange and interest rate exposure. the company manages interest rate exposure through its conservative debt ratio target and its mix of fixed and floating rate debt. interest rate swaps may be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate based on market conditions, and, for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. the company foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company focuses on natural hedging techniques of the following form: offsetting or netting of like foreign currency cash flows, structuring foreign subsidiary balance sheets with appropriate levels of debt to reduce subsidiary net investments and subsidiary cash flows subject to conversion risk, converting excess foreign currency deposits into u.s. dollars or the relevant functional currency and avoidance of risk by denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency. 36 table of contents in addition, the company utilizes short-term forward contracts to hedge commercial and intercompany transactions. gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. derivatives used to hedge intercompany loans are marked to market with the corresponding gains or losses included in the company consolidated statements of operations. the company purchases certain raw materials that are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. generally, the company does not use derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques and including substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding equity-method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below do not have an impact on current results of operations or financial condition, but are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest rates. the following table indicates the calculated amounts for each of the years ended december 31, 2003 and 2002 (in millions): 2003 december 31, 2002 december 31, confidence market risk average 2003 average 2002 level interest rates $ 20.0 $ 12.8 $ 18.2 $ 20.5 95 % foreign exchange $ 1.3 $ 1.5 $ 0.3 $ 0.2 95 % the 95% confidence interval signifies the company's degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company primary market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in market prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. 30 the company manages interest rate exposure through its conservative debt ratio target and its mix of fixed and floating rate debt. interest rate swaps may be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate based on market conditions, and, for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. the company foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company focuses on natural hedging techniques of the following form: offsetting or netting of like foreign currency cash flows, structuring foreign subsidiary balance sheets with appropriate levels of debt to reduce subsidiary net investments and subsidiary cash flows subject to conversion risk, converting excess foreign currency deposits into u.s. dollars or the relevant functional currency and avoidance of risk by denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency. in addition, the company utilizes forward contracts and purchase options to hedge commercial and intercompany transactions. gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. derivatives used to hedge intercompany loans are marked to market with the corresponding gains or losses included in the company consolidated statements of operations. the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, steel and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. generally, the company does not use derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and include substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding equity-method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below do not have an impact on current results of operations or financial condition, but are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest rates. the following table indicates the calculated amounts for each of the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003 (in millions, except percentages): 2004 december 31, 2003 december 31, confidence market risk average 2004 average 2003 level interest rates $12.1 $11.3 $20.0 $12.8 95 % foreign exchange $2.2 $1.9 $1.3 $1.5 95 % the 95% confidence interval signifies the company degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is considered highly unlikely that the company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. 31risk factors risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail economies in various parts of the world. the company business depends on the strength of the retail economies in various parts of the world, primarily in north america and to a lesser extent europe, central and south america and asia. these retail economies are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions and specific events such as natural disasters and the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001. in recent years, the retail industry in the u.s. and, increasingly, elsewhere has been characterized by intense competition and consolidation among retailers. because such competition, particularly in weak retail economies, can cause retailers to struggle or fail, the company must continuously monitor, and adapt to changes in, the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of its customers. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well established. the company principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. the rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with products of the company. the combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for strong end-user brands, the ongoing introduction of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. the resulting risks to the company include possible loss of sales, reduced profitability and limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. to compete successfully, the company must develop a continuing stream of innovative new products that create consumer demand. 10 the company long-term success in this competitive retail environment depends on its ability to develop a continuing stream of innovative new products that create consumer demand for the company products. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company products. project acceleration, a three-year initiative announced in september 2005, includes increased investment in new product development. there are, nevertheless, numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and introducing innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not deliver expected growth results. to compete successfully, the company must develop and maintain strong end-user brands. the company competitive success also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain strong end-user brands so that the company retailer customers will need the company products to meet consumer demand. the development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand building and marketing initiatives. while the company is substantially increasing its expenditures for advertising and other brand building and marketing initiatives as a part of project acceleration, the increased investment may not deliver the anticipated results. price increases in raw materials could harm the company financial results. the company purchases some raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel and aluminum, that are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressure. the company attempts to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, purchases for future delivery, long-term contracts and sales price adjustments. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. raw material price increases may offset productivity gains and could materially impact the company financial results. the company success depends on its ability to continuously improve productivity and streamline operations, principally by reducing its manufacturing overhead. the company objective is to become its retailer customers low-cost provider and global supplier and brand of choice. to do this, the company needs to continuously improve its manufacturing efficiencies and develop sources of supply on a global basis. project acceleration includes the closure of approximately one-third of the company 80 manufacturing facilities (as of september 2005) over the next three years. the company also needs to continue to divest low-margin product lines that do not fit in the company strategic plan. the company runs the risk that project acceleration may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated, or that another major productivity and streamlining program may be required after project acceleration is completed. in addition, disruptions in the company ability to supply products on a timely basis, which may be incidental to any problems in the execution of project acceleration, could adversely affect the company future results. the company needs to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses. although the company has in recent years increasingly emphasized internal growth rather than growth by acquisition, the company ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully, obtaining anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, remain important factors in the company future growth. for example, the successful integration of the recently acquired dymo business into the company office products segment is important to the company success. furthermore, the cost of any future major acquisitions could constrain the company access to capital and increase the company borrowing costs. the company is subject to risks related to its international operations. foreign operations, especially in europe, but also in asia, central and south america and canada, are important to the company business. in november 2005, the company acquired the dymo business and thereby increased the magnitude of the company operations in europe. in addition, as the company increasingly sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in the far east, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation, other currency fluctuations, tariffs, nationalization, 11 exchange controls, interest rates, limitations on foreign investment in local business and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. the company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in increased reliance on foreign sourcing. the company faces challenges and uncertainties as it transforms into a company that grows through strong brands and new product innovation. the company is undergoing a transformation from a portfolio-holding company that grew through acquisitions to a focused group of leadership platforms that generate internal growth driven by strong brands and new product innovation. although the process is well underway, there remain significant challenges and uncertainties. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company customer base, or a material adverse change in its relationship with significant customers. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the company financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the company products arise in the ordinary course of the company business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company reputation in the marketplace or the value of its end-user brands. the company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in market prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. 33 the company manages interest rate exposure through its conservative debt ratio target and its mix of fixed and floating rate debt. interest rate swaps may be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate based on market conditions, and, for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. the company foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company focuses on natural hedging techniques of the following form: 1) offsetting or netting of like foreign currency flows, 2) structuring foreign subsidiary balance sheets with appropriate levels of debt to reduce subsidiary net investments and subsidiary cash flows subject to conversion risk, 3) converting excess foreign currency deposits into u.s. dollars or the relevant functional currency and 4) avoidance of risk by denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency. in addition, the company utilizes forward contracts and purchased options to hedge commercial and intercompany transactions. gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. derivatives used to hedge intercompany loans are marked to market with the corresponding gains or losses included in the company consolidated statements of operations. the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery, long-term contracts and price adjustments help the company mitigate this risk. where practical, the company uses derivatives to help manage the volatility related to this risk. in 2005, the company experienced raw material inflation of approximately $153 million (primarily in resin and steel), partially offset by pricing increases of approximately $132 million. the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and includes substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding equity-method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below have no impact on results of operations or financial condition, but are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest rates. the following table indicates the calculated amounts for each of the years ended december 31, 2005 and 2004 (in millions, except percentages): 2005 december 31, 2004 december 31, confidence market risk average 2005 average 2004 level interest rates $9.5 $8.1 $12.1 $11.3 95 % foreign exchange $3.1 $5.6 $ 2.2 $ 1.9 95 % the 95% confidence interval signifies the company degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. 34risk factors risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail economies in various parts of the world. the company business depends on the strength of the retail economies in various parts of the world, primarily in north america and to a lesser extent europe, central and south america and asia. these retail economies are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions and specific events such as natural disasters and terrorist attacks. in recent years, the retail industry in the u.s. and, increasingly, elsewhere has been characterized by intense competition and consolidation among retailers. because such competition, particularly in weak retail economies, can cause retailers to struggle or fail, the company must continuously monitor, and adapt to changes in, the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of its customers. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well established. the company principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. the rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with products of the company. - 10 - table of contents the combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. the resulting risks to the company include possible loss of sales, reduced profitability and limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. to compete successfully, the company must develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create consumer demand. the company long-term success in this competitive retail environment depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create consumer demand. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company products. the company strategy includes increased investment in new product development and increased focus on innovation. there are, nevertheless, numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not deliver expected growth results. to compete successfully, the company must develop and maintain big, consumer-meaningful brands. the company competitive success also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that the company retailer customers will need the company products to meet consumer demand, and big brands to provide the company with economies of scale. the development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand building and marketing initiatives. while the company is substantially increasing its expenditures for advertising and other brand building and marketing initiatives, the increased investment may not deliver the anticipated results. price increases in raw materials could harm the company financial results. the company purchases some raw materials, including resin, glass, corrugate, steel, gold, zinc, brass and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressure. the company attempts to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts and sales price adjustments. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. raw material price increases may offset productivity gains and could materially impact the company financial results. the company success depends on its ability to continuously improve productivity and streamline operations. the company success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline non-strategic sg a expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and free up money for investment in innovation and brand building. project acceleration includes the closure of approximately one-third of the company 64 manufacturing facilities (adjusted for the divestiture of little tikes and home d cor europe) between the periods january 1, 2006 and december 31, 2009. in addition, the company is exploring ways to best leverage its functional capabilities such as human resources, information technology, customer service, supply chain and finance in order to improve efficiency and reduce costs. the company runs the risk that project acceleration and other corporate initiatives aimed at streamlining and cost reduction may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated, or that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required after such projects are completed. in addition, disruptions in the company ability to supply products on a timely basis, which may be incidental to any problems in the execution of project acceleration, could adversely affect the company future results. the company ability to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses is an important factor in the company future growth. - 11 - table of contents although the company has in recent years increasingly emphasized internal growth rather than growth by acquisition, the company ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully, obtaining anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, remain important factors in the company future growth. furthermore, the cost of any future major acquisitions could constrain the company access to capital and increase the company borrowing costs. the company is subject to risks related to its international operations. foreign operations, especially in europe, but also in asia, central and south america and canada, are important to the company business. the company is expanding from a u.s.-centric business model to one that includes international growth as an increasing focus. in addition, as the company increasingly sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in the far east, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation, other currency fluctuations, tariffs, nationalization, exchange controls, interest rates, limitations on foreign investment in local business and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. the company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in increased reliance on foreign sourcing. the company faces challenges and uncertainties as it transforms into a company that grows through consumer-meaningful brands and new product innovation. the company is undergoing a transformation from a portfolio-holding company that grew through acquisitions to a focused group of leadership platforms that generate internal growth driven by consumer-meaningful brands and new product innovation. such a transformation will require significant investment in brand-building, marketing and product development and the development of the right methods for understanding how consumers interact with the company brands and categories and measuring the effectiveness of advertising and promotion spending. although the process is well underway, there remain significant challenges and uncertainties. complications in connection with the company current information system initiative may impact its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the company is in the early stages of replacing various business information systems worldwide with an enterprise resource planning system from sap. the pilot implementation is currently planned for the north american office products business in late 2007. the implementation will occur over several years in phases, primarily based on geographic region and segment. this activity involves the migration of multiple legacy systems and users to a common sap information platform. throughout this process, the company is changing the way it conducts business and employees roles in processing and utilizing information. in addition, this conversion will impact certain interfaces with the company customers and suppliers, resulting in changes to the tools we use to take orders, procure material, schedule production, remit billings, make payments and perform other business functions. based upon the complexity of this initiative, there is risk that the company will be unable to complete the implementation in accordance with its timeline and will incur additional costs, the implementation could result in operating inefficiencies, and the implementation could impact the company ability to perform necessary business transactions. all of these risks could adversely impact the company results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company customer base, or a material adverse change in its relationship with significant customers. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the company financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the company products arise in the ordinary course of the company business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company reputation in the marketplace or - 12 - table of contents the value of its end-user brands. the company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in market prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company manages interest rate exposure through its conservative debt ratio target and its mix of fixed and floating rate debt. interest rate swaps may be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate based on market conditions, and, for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. the company foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company focuses on natural hedging techniques of the following form: 1) offsetting or netting of like foreign currency flows, 2) structuring foreign subsidiary balance sheets with appropriate levels of debt to reduce subsidiary net investments and subsidiary cash flows subject to conversion risk, 3) converting excess foreign currency deposits into u.s. dollars or the relevant functional currency and 4) avoidance of risk by denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency. in addition, the company utilizes forward contracts and purchased options to hedge commercial and intercompany transactions. gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. derivatives used to hedge intercompany loans are marked to market with the corresponding gains or losses included in the company consolidated statements of operations. the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel, stainless steel, aluminum and other metals, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. during 2006, the company experienced raw material inflation, which was more than offset by pricing increases, favorable mix and productivity. the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation - 34 - table of contents of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and includes substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding equity-method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below have no impact on results of operations or financial condition, but are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the following table indicates the calculated amounts for each of the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005 (in millions, except percentages): 2006 december 31, 2005 december 31, confidence market risk average 2006 average 2005 level interest rates $ 8.0 $ 7.5 $ 9.5 $ 8.1 95 % foreign exchange $ 5.0 $ 3.5 $ 3.1 $ 5.6 95 % the 95% confidence interval signifies the company degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets.risk factors risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail economies in various parts of the world. the company business depends on the strength of the retail economies in various parts of the world, primarily in north america and to a lesser extent europe, central and south america and asia. these retail economies are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions and specific events such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks and political unrest. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact our business. in recent years, the retail industry in the u.s. and, increasingly, elsewhere has been characterized by intense competition among retailers. because such competition, particularly in weak retail economies, can cause retailers to struggle or fail, the company must continuously monitor, and adapt to changes in, the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of its customers. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well established. the company principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. the rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and delivering products with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with the company products. the combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. the resulting risks to the company include possible loss of sales, reduced profitability and limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. to compete successfully, the company must develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create consumer demand. the company long-term success in the competitive retail environment depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create consumer demand. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company products. the company strategy includes increased investment in new product development and increased focus on innovation. there are, nevertheless, numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not deliver expected growth in sales or operating income. to compete successfully, the company must develop and maintain big, consumer-meaningful brands. the company ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that the company retailer customers will need the company products to meet consumer demand. consumer-meaningful brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand building and marketing initiatives. while the company is substantially increasing its expenditures for advertising and other brand building and marketing initiatives, the increased investment may not deliver the anticipated results. - 10 - table of contents price increases in raw materials could harm the company financial results. the company purchases some raw materials, including resin, glass, corrugate, steel, gold, zinc, brass and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures. the company attempts to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts and sales price adjustments. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. raw material price increases may more than offset productivity gains and could materially impact the company financial results. the company success depends on its ability to continuously improve productivity and streamline operations. the company success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline non-strategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building. project acceleration includes the closure of approximately one-third of the company 64 manufacturing facilities (adjusted for the divestiture of little tikes and home d cor europe). in addition, the company continuously explores ways to best leverage its functional capabilities such as human resources, information technology, customer service, supply chain management and finance in order to improve efficiency and reduce costs. the company runs the risk that project acceleration and other corporate initiatives aimed at streamlining operations and processes and cost reduction may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated, or that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required after such projects are completed. in addition, disruptions in the company ability to supply products on a timely basis, which may be incidental to any problems in the execution of project acceleration, could adversely affect the company future results. the company ability to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses is an important factor in the company future growth. although the company has in recent years increasingly emphasized internal growth rather than growth by acquisition, the company ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully, including obtaining anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, remain important factors in the company future growth. furthermore, the cost of any future major acquisitions could constrain the company access to capital and increase the company borrowing costs. the company is subject to risks related to its international operations and sourcing model. foreign operations, especially in europe, but also in asia, central and south america and canada, are important to the company business. the company is expanding from a u.s.-centric business model to one that includes international growth as an increasing focus. in addition, as the company increasingly sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in the far east, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation, other currency fluctuations, tariffs, nationalization, exchange controls, interest rates, limitations on foreign investment in local business and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. the company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in increased reliance on foreign sourcing. the company faces challenges and uncertainties as it transforms into a company that grows through consumer-meaningful brands and new product innovation. the company is undergoing a transformation from a portfolio-holding company that grew through acquisitions to a focused group of leadership platforms that generate internal growth driven by consumer-meaningful brands and new product innovation. such a transformation will require significant investment in brand-building, marketing and product development and the development of the right methods for understanding how consumers interact with the company brands and categories and measuring the effectiveness of advertising and promotion spending. although the process is well underway, significant challenges and uncertainties remain. complications in connection with the company current information system initiative may impact its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. - 11 - table of contents the company is in the process of replacing various business information systems worldwide with an enterprise resource planning system from sap. on october 1, 2007, the company successfully went live with the sap implementation at its north american office products business unit. this sap go-live marks the completion of the first major milestone in a multi-year implementation that will occur in several phases, primarily based on geographic region and segment. this activity involves the migration of multiple legacy systems and users to a common sap information platform. throughout this process, the company is changing the way it conducts business and employees roles in processing and utilizing information. in addition, this conversion will impact certain interfaces with the company customers and suppliers, resulting in changes to the tools we use to take orders, procure material, schedule production, remit billings, make payments and perform other business functions. based upon the complexity of this initiative, there is risk that the company will be unable to complete the implementation in accordance with its timeline and will incur additional costs. the implementation could result in operating inefficiencies, and the implementation could impact the company ability to perform necessary business transactions. all of these risks could adversely impact the company results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, including patent infringement litigation involving psi systems, inc., or a material adverse change in the company relationship with significant customers or business partners. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the company financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the company products arise in the ordinary course of the company business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of its end-user brands. the company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in market prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. the company manages interest rate exposure through its conservative debt ratio target and its mix of fixed and floating rate debt. interest rate swaps may be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate based on market conditions, and, for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. the company foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company focuses on natural hedging techniques of the following form: 1) offsetting or netting of like foreign currency flows, 2) structuring foreign subsidiary balance sheets with appropriate levels of debt to reduce subsidiary net investments and subsidiary cash flows subject to conversion risk, 3) converting excess foreign currency deposits into u.s. dollars or the relevant functional currency and 4) avoidance of risk by denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency. in addition, the company primarily utilizes forward contracts and purchased options to hedge commercial and intercompany transactions. gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany - 34 - table of contents transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. derivatives used to hedge intercompany loans are marked to market with the corresponding gains or losses included in the company consolidated statements of income. the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel, stainless steel, aluminum and other metals, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and includes substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding equity-method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below have no impact on results of operations or financial condition, but are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the following table indicates the calculated amounts for each of the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006 (dollars in millions ): 2007 december 31, 2006 december 31, confidence market risk (1) average 2007 average 2006 level interest rates $8.8 $10.2 $8.0 $7.5 95 % foreign exchange $4.9 $7.1 $5.0 $3.5 95 % (1) commodity price risk is not shown because the amounts are not material. the 95% confidence interval signifies the company degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets.risk factors risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail economies in various parts of the world. the company business depends on the strength of the retail economies in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, central and south america and asia. these retail economies are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions. with the recent and significant deterioration of economic conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere, there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the demand for the company products as well as its financial condition and results of operations. consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact the company business. moreover, in recent years, the retail industry in the u.s. and, increasingly, elsewhere has been characterized by intense competition among retailers. because such competition, particularly in weak retail economies, can cause retailers to struggle or fail, the company must continuously monitor, and adapt to changes in, the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of its customers. a failure by one of the company large retail customers would adversely impact the company sales and operating cash flows. 9 table of contents if the company is unable to access the capital markets to refinance its maturing short-term debt, its borrowing costs could increase significantly. as of december 31, 2008, the company had $761.0 million of short-term debt that it will be required to refinance or repay within the next twelve months. the company plans to address these obligations through the capital markets or other arrangements. however, access to the capital markets cannot be assured, particularly given the recent turmoil and uncertainty in the global credit markets, and although the company believes that alternative arrangements will be available to refinance these obligations, such arrangements could result in a significant increase in the company borrowing costs. a further reduction in the company credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company current senior debt credit ratings from moody investors service, standard &amp; poor and fitch ratings are baa3, bbb- and bbb, respectively. its current short-term debt credit ratings from moody investors service, standard &amp; poor and fitch ratings are p-3, a-3 and f-2, respectively. in july 2008, both moody and standard &amp; poor changed their outlook on their ratings from stable to negative and fitch revised its outlook from positive to stable. in february 2009, moody and standard &amp; poor lowered their credit ratings on the company senior debt from baa2 to baa3 and from bbb+ to bbb-, respectively, and their short-term debt credit ratings from p-2 to p-3 and from a-2 to a-3, respectively. both moody and standard &amp; poor reaffirmed their negative outlook. the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any further downgrade by moody or standard &amp; poor s, which would reduce the company senior debt below investment grade, would likely increase the company borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the company financial results. the company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would further limit, or eliminate entirely, the company access to the commercial paper market. the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well established. the company principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. the rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and delivering products with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with the company products. the combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. however, the intense competition in the retail sector combined with the overall economic environment may result in a number of retailers experiencing financial difficulty or failing in the future. as a result of these factors, the company may experience a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. the company inability to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create consumer demand may adversely impact its ability to compete in the marketplace. the company long-term success in the competitive retail environment depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create consumer demand. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company products. the company strategy includes increased investment in new product development and increased focus on innovation. there are, nevertheless, numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not deliver expected growth in sales or operating income. 10 table of contents if the company does not continue to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands, its operating results may suffer. the company ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that the company retailer customers will need the company products to meet consumer demand. consumer-meaningful brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to increase its expenditures for advertising and other brand building and marketing initiatives, the increased investment may not deliver the anticipated results. the company faces challenges and uncertainties as it transforms into a company that grows through consumer-meaningful brands and new product innovation. the company is undergoing a transformation from a portfolio-holding company that grew through acquisitions to a focused group of leadership platforms that generate internal growth driven by consumer-meaningful brands and new product innovation. such a transformation requires significant investment in brand-building, marketing and product development. it also requires the development of the right methods for understanding how consumers interact with the company brands and categories and measuring the effectiveness of advertising and promotion spending. although the process is well underway, significant challenges and uncertainties remain. price increases in raw materials and sourced products could harm the company financial results. the company purchases raw materials, including resin, glass, corrugate, steel, gold, zinc, brass and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures. the company attempts to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts and sales price adjustments. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. also, as part of its strategy to achieve best total cost, the company increasingly relies on third party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. raw material and sourced product price increases may more than offset the company productivity gains and could materially impact the company financial results. the company plans to improve productivity and streamline operations may not be successful, which would adversely affect its ability to compete. the company success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline non-strategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building. project acceleration includes the anticipated closures of certain manufacturing and distribution facilities. in addition, the company continuously explores ways to best leverage its functional capabilities such as human resources, information technology, customer service, supply chain management and finance in order to improve efficiency and reduce costs. the company runs the risk that project acceleration and other corporate initiatives aimed at streamlining operations and processes, cost reduction, and improving overall financial results may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated. it is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required after such projects are completed. in addition, disruptions in the company ability to supply products on a timely basis, which may be incidental to any problems in the execution of project acceleration, could adversely affect the company future results. the company inability to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses could adversely impact the company future growth. although the company has in recent years increasingly emphasized internal growth rather than growth by acquisition, the company ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully, including obtaining anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, remain important factors in the company future growth. furthermore, the company ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the recent turmoil and uncertainty in global credit markets. in addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the company borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the company future access to capital. 11 table of contents circumstances associated with the company potential divestitures and product line rationalizations could adversely affect the company results of operations and financial condition. the company continues to evaluate the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products and may decide to sell or discontinue a business or product line based on such an evaluation. a decision to divest or discontinue a business or product line may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers (or prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing) or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; the assumption of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company business; and the potential loss of key employees. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or product line. the company is subject to risks related to its international operations and sourcing model. foreign operations, especially in europe, but also in asia, central and south america and canada, are important to the company business. the company is expanding from a u.s.-centric business model to one that includes international growth as an increasing focus. in addition, as the company increasingly sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in the far east, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation, other currency fluctuations, tariffs, nationalization, exchange controls, interest rates, limitations on foreign investment in local business and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. the company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in increased reliance on foreign sourcing. the inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect the company ability to manufacture and market its products. the company purchases raw materials to be used in manufacturing its products. in addition, the company is placing increasing reliance on third party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. the company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its suppliers or sourcing partners. instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by the company suppliers and/or sourcing partners or changes in the company relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies and prevent the company from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. complications in connection with the company current information system initiative may adversely impact its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the company is in the process of replacing various business information systems worldwide with an enterprise resource planning system from sap. to date, the company has successfully gone live with the sap implementation at its north american office products business units and its north american home &amp; family business units. these go-lives are the first two major milestones in a multi-year implementation that will occur in several phases, primarily based on geographic region and segment. this activity involves the migration of multiple legacy systems and users to a common sap information platform. throughout this process, the company is changing the way it conducts business and employees roles in processing and utilizing information. in addition, this conversion will impact certain interfaces with the company customers and suppliers, resulting in changes to the tools the company uses to take orders, procure materials, schedule production, remit billings, make payments and perform other business functions. based upon the complexity of this initiative, there is risk that the company will be unable to complete the implementation in accordance with its timeline and will incur additional costs. the implementation could result in operating inefficiencies, and the implementation could 12 table of contents impact the company ability to perform necessary business transactions. all of these risks could adversely impact the company results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, including patent infringement litigation involving psi systems, inc., a material adverse change in the company relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company stock price. given the macroeconomic environment and its adverse impact on certain business units of the company in the fourth quarter of 2008, the company evaluated its goodwill for impairment during the fourth quarter of 2008. as a result of the evaluation, the company recorded non-cash impairment charges of $299.4 million, principally related to goodwill. the company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. subsequent to december 31, 2008, the company total market capitalization periodically declined below the company december 31, 2008 consolidated stockholders equity balance. if the company total market capitalization is below reported consolidated stockholders equity at a future reporting date or for a sustained period, the company considers this an indicator of potential impairment of goodwill. the company utilizes market capitalization in corroborating its assessment of the fair value of its reporting units. as a result, the company may be required to perform additional impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in additional impairment charges in the future. the resolution of the company tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions outside the u.s. significant estimation and judgment is required in determining the company worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the company financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the company products arise in the ordinary course of the company business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company products. the company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore the company estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. 13 table of contents assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company pension and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long term rate of return on assets, or health care costs, the company future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in rates and prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. interest rates interest rate risk is present with both fixed and floating rate debt. the company manages its interest rate exposure through its mix of fixed and floating rate debt and its conservative debt ratio target. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate the company exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of the company fixed rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. excluding debt for which a fixed rate has been swapped for a floating rate, fixed rate debt represented approximately 41% of the company $2.9 billion of total debt as of december 31, 2008. foreign currency exchange rates the company is exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business since a portion of the company sales, expenses, and operating transactions are conducted on a global basis in various foreign currencies. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in u.s. dollars, the company is exposed to transactional foreign currency exchange rate risk. the company foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts and purchased options as economic hedges for 39 table of contents commercial transactions and to offset the future impact of gains and losses resulting from changes in the expected amount of functional currency cash flows to be received or paid upon settlement of the anticipated intercompany and third party commercial transactions. gains and losses related to the settlement of qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. the company also uses natural hedging techniques such as offsetting or netting like foreign currency flows and denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency. the company also incurs gains and losses recorded within shareholders equity due to the translation of the financial statements from the functional currency of its entities to u.s. dollars. the company utilizes capital structures of foreign subsidiaries combined with forward contracts to minimize its exposure to foreign currency risk. the company hedges portions of its net investments in foreign subsidiaries, including intercompany loans, with forward contracts and cross-currency hedges. gains and losses related to qualifying forward exchange contracts and cross-currency hedges, which are generally used to hedge intercompany loans and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, are recognized in other comprehensive income. commodity prices the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel, stainless steel, aluminum and other metals, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. financial instruments in managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the company uses interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and cross currency swaps. derivatives were recorded at fair value in the company consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2008 as follows (in millions) : prepaid expenses and other $ 6.9 other assets 62.3 other accrued liabilities (130.1 ) see footnote 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on derivatives. value at risk the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and includes substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding equity-method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below represent the company estimate of the maximum loss that could arise in one day. the amounts presented in the table are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the one day value-at-risk as of and for the year ended december 31, ( in millions, except percentages ): market risk (1) 2008 average december 31, 2008 2007 average december 31, 2007 confidence level interest rates $ 12.2 $ 9.6 $ 8.8 $ 10.2 95% foreign exchange $ 8.9 $ 15.3 $ 4.9 $ 7.1 95% (1) the company generally does not enter into material derivative contracts for commodities; therefore, commodity price risk is not shown because the amounts are not material. the year-over-year increase in value-at-risk in foreign exchange is primarily due to a significant increase in the volatility of foreign exchange rates in 2008. the 95% confidence interval signifies the company degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the 40 table of contents company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. additionally, since the company operates globally, and therefore, among a broad basket of currencies, its foreign currency exposure is diversified. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. 41 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world. the company business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, central and south america, and asia. these sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions. with continuing challenging economic conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere, there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on demand for the company products as well as its financial condition and results of operations. consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact the company business. in recent years, the retail industry in the u.s. and, increasingly, elsewhere has been characterized by intense competition among retailers. because such competition, particularly in weak retail economies, can cause retailers to struggle or fail, the company must continuously monitor, and adapt to changes in, the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of its customers. a failure by one of the company large retail customers would adversely impact the company sales and operating cash flows. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. the company principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. the rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices, and delivering products with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with the company products. the combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. however, the intense competition in the retail sector combined with the overall economic environment may result in a number of retailers experiencing financial difficulty or failing in the future. as a result of these factors, the company may experience a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. if the company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create consumer demand, the company ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted. the company long-term success in the competitive retail environment depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create consumer demand. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company products. the company strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. there are, nevertheless, numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not deliver expected growth in sales or operating income. if the company does not continue to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands, its operating results may suffer. the company ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that the company retailer customers will need the company products to meet consumer demand. consumer-meaningful 9 table of contents brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to increase its expenditures for advertising and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the increased investment may not deliver the anticipated results. price increases in raw materials and sourced products could harm the company financial results. the company purchases raw materials, including resin, principally polyethylene and polypropylene, corrugate, steel, gold, zinc, brass and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures. the company attempts to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts and sales price adjustments. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. also, as part of its strategy to achieve best total cost, the company increasingly relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. raw material and sourced product price increases may more than offset the company productivity gains and could materially impact the company financial results. the company plans to continue to improve productivity and streamline operations may not be successful, which would adversely affect its ability to compete. the company success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline non-strategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building. project acceleration includes the anticipated closures of certain manufacturing and distribution facilities. in addition, the company continuously explores ways to best leverage its functional capabilities such as human resources, information technology, customer service, supply chain management and finance in order to improve efficiency and reduce costs. the company runs the risk that project acceleration and other corporate initiatives aimed at streamlining operations and processes, cost reduction, and improving overall financial results may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated. it is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required after such projects are completed. in addition, disruptions in the company ability to supply products on a timely basis, which may be incidental to any problems in the execution of project acceleration or other programs, could adversely affect the company future results. if the company is unable to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses, the company future growth could be adversely impacted. although the company has, in recent years, increasingly emphasized internal growth rather than growth by acquisition, the company ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully, including obtaining anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, remain important factors in the company future growth. furthermore, the company ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the company financial position and uncertainty in global credit markets. in addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the company borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the company future access to capital. circumstances associated with the company potential divestitures and product line rationalizations could adversely affect the company results of operations and financial condition. the company continues to evaluate the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products and may decide to sell or discontinue a business or product line based on such an evaluation. a decision to divest or discontinue a business or product line may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers (or prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing) or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; the assumption of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company business; and the potential loss of key employees. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or product line. 10 table of contents the company is subject to risks related to its international operations and sourcing model. international operations, especially in europe, but also in asia, central and south america and canada, are important to the company business. the company is expanding from a u.s.-centric business model to one that includes international growth as an increasing focus. in addition, as the company increasingly sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in asia, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation; other currency fluctuations; tariffs; nationalization; exchange controls; interest rates; limitations on foreign investment in local business; and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. the company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in increased reliance on foreign sourcing. venezuelan government approval for currency conversion into u.s. dollars has recently been delayed, resulting in higher cash balances within the company venezuelan subsidiary, which totaled $17 million at the parallel exchange rate as of december 31, 2009 ($44 million at the official rate at september 30, 2009). in addition, venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy effective january 2010, and accordingly, future gains and losses resulting from the conversion of the net assets of subsidiaries operating in venezuela or other highly inflationary economies into u.s. dollars are recorded in earnings, which will adversely affect the company results of operations. the inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect the company ability to manufacture and market its products. the company purchases raw materials to be used in manufacturing its products. in addition, the company is placing increasing reliance on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. the company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its suppliers or sourcing partners. instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by the company suppliers and/or sourcing partners or changes in the company relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent the company from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. complications in connection with the company current information system initiative may adversely impact its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the company is in the process of replacing various business information systems worldwide with an enterprise resource planning system from sap. to date, the north american operations of 10 of the company 13 gbus have successfully gone live with their sap implementation efforts, with the majority of the company remaining north american operations scheduled to go live in 2010. these go-lives are the first major milestones in a multi-year implementation that will occur in several phases, primarily based on geographic region and segment. this activity involves the migration of multiple legacy systems and users to a common sap information platform. throughout this process, the company is changing the way it conducts business and employees roles in processing and utilizing information. in addition, this conversion will impact certain interfaces with the company customers and suppliers, resulting in changes to the manner in which the company takes orders, procures materials, schedules production, remits billings, makes payments and performs other business functions. based upon the complexity of this initiative, there is risk that the company will be unable to complete the implementation in accordance with its timeline and will incur additional costs. the implementation could result in operating inefficiencies, and the implementation could impact the company ability to perform necessary business transactions. all of these risks could adversely impact the company results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, including patent infringement litigation involving endicia, a material adverse change in the company relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company stock price. the company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. in early 2009, the company total market capitalization temporarily declined below the company consolidated stockholders equity balance. if the company total market capitalization is below reported consolidated stockholders equity at a future reporting date or for a sustained period, the company considers this an indicator of potential impairment of goodwill. the company utilizes market capitalization in corroborating its assessment of the fair value of its reporting units. as a result, the company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in additional impairment charges in the future. 11 table of contents the company businesses are subject to regulation in the u.s. and abroad. changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the company does business. this includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. accordingly, the company ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent, and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal matters without significant liability could require the company to take significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the company results. in addition, new regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the company results of operations. lastly, as a u.s.-based multi-national company, the company is also subject to tax regulations in the u.s. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. for example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the u.s. is not taxed in the u.s., provided those earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s. if these or other tax regulations should change, the company financial results could be impacted. the resolution of the company tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions outside the u.s. significant estimation and judgment is required in determining the company worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. conversion of the company convertible senior notes due 2014 may dilute the ownership interests of stockholders at the time of conversion and the company stock price may be impacted by note hedge and warrant transactions it entered into in connection with the issuance of the convertible senior notes. upon conversion of some or all of the company convertible senior notes due 2014, the ownership interests of stockholders may be diluted. any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the company common stock. in addition, the company entered into note hedge transactions with various financial institutions, at the time of issuance of the convertible senior notes, with the objective of reducing the potential dilutive effect of issuing common stock upon conversion of the notes. the company also entered into separate warrant transactions with the same financial institutions. the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market value per share of common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants. in connection with establishing an initial hedge for the note hedge and warrant transactions, these financial institutions or their affiliates entered into various derivative transactions with respect to the company common stock. these entities or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the convertible senior notes by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to the company common stock and/or purchasing and selling shares of the company common stock. any of these transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of the company common stock. for additional information on the convertible senior notes and related note hedge and warrant transactions, please refer to footnotes 9 and 10 of the company consolidated financial statements. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the company financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the company products arise in the ordinary course of the company business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company products. the company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. if the company is unable to access the capital markets to refinance its maturing short-term debt, its borrowing costs could increase. as of december 31, 2009, the company had $493.5 million of short-term debt that it could be required to refinance or repay within the next 12 months. although the company capital markets transactions and financing activities in 2009 addressed a substantial portion of the company then outstanding short-term debt obligations, it is possible that the company may seek to address its 12 table of contents remaining short-term obligations through the capital markets or other arrangements. however, access to the capital markets cannot be assured, particularly given uncertainties in the global credit markets, and although the company believes that alternative arrangements will be available to refinance these obligations, such arrangements could result in an increase in the company borrowing costs. a reduction in the company credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company current senior debt credit ratings from moody investors service, standard &amp; poor and fitch ratings are baa3, bbb- and bbb, respectively. its current short-term debt credit ratings from moody investors service, standard &amp; poor and fitch ratings are p-3, a-3 and f-2, respectively. standard &amp; poor has a stable outlook, and moody and fitch maintain a negative outlook on their ratings. the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. a downgrade by moody or standard &amp; poor s, which would reduce the company senior debt below investment grade, would increase the company borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the company financial results. the company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would further limit, or eliminate entirely, the company access to the commercial paper market. the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore the company estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, the company future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in rates and prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. interest rates interest rate risk is present with both fixed- and floating-rate debt. the company manages its interest rate exposure through its mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt and its conservative debt ratio target. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate the company exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of the company fixed-rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. excluding debt for which a fixed rate has been swapped for a floating rate, fixed-rate debt represented approximately 45.0% of the company $2.51 billion of total debt as of december 31, 2009. foreign currency exchange rates the company is exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business since a portion of the company sales, expenses and operating transactions is conducted on a global basis in various foreign currencies. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in the functional currency of the entity entering into the transaction, the company is exposed to transactional foreign currency exchange rate risk. the company foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts as economic hedges for commercial transactions and to offset the future impact of gains and losses resulting from changes in the expected amount of functional currency cash flows to be received or paid upon settlement of the anticipated intercompany and third party commercial transactions. gains and losses related to the settlement of qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. the company also uses natural hedging techniques such as offsetting or netting like foreign currency flows and denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency. the company also incurs gains and losses recorded within shareholders equity due to the translation of the financial statements from the functional currency of its subsidiaries to u.s. dollars. the company utilizes capital structures of foreign subsidiaries combined with forward contracts to minimize its exposure to foreign currency risk. the company may hedge portions of its net investments in foreign subsidiaries, including intercompany loans, with forward contracts and cross-currency hedges. gains and losses related to qualifying forward exchange contracts and cross-currency hedges, which are generally used to hedge intercompany loans and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). commodity prices the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel, stainless steel, aluminum and other metals, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. the company resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene and polypropylene in roughly equal quantities. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. financial instruments in managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the company uses interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and cross-currency swaps. derivatives were recorded at fair value in the company consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2009 as follows (in millions) : prepaid expenses and other $ 1.3 other assets 20.9 other accrued liabilities (1.5 ) other noncurrent liabilities (2.5 ) see footnote 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on derivatives. 40 table of contents value at risk the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and includes substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding equity-method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below represent the company estimate of the maximum loss that could arise in one day. the amounts presented in the table are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the one day value-at-risk as of and for the year ended december 31, ( in millions, except percentages ): market risk (1) 2009 average december 31, 2009 2008 average december 31, 2008 confidence level interest rates $ 12.2 $ 9.6 $ 12.2 $ 9.6 95% foreign exchange $ 12.8 $ 12.3 $ 8.9 $ 15.3 95% (1) the company generally does not enter into material derivative contracts for commodities; therefore, commodity price risk is not shown because the amounts are not material. the year-over-year decrease in the end of year value-at-risk in foreign exchange is primarily due to reduced volatility in foreign exchange rates in late 2009 as well as declines in overall currency exposures. the 95% confidence interval signifies the company degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. additionally, since the company operates globally, and therefore, among a broad basket of currencies, its foreign currency exposure is diversified. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. 41 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors the factors that are discussed below, as well as the matters that are generally set forth in this report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference herein, could materially and adversely affect the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world. the company business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, central and south america, and asia. these sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions. with continuing challenging economic conditions in the u.s. and elsewhere, there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on demand for the company products as well as its financial condition and results of operations. consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of the factors could adversely impact the company business. in recent years, the retail industry in the u.s. and, increasingly, elsewhere has been characterized by intense competition among retailers. because such competition, particularly in weak retail economies, can cause retailers to struggle or fail, the company must continuously monitor, and adapt to changes in, the profitability, creditworthiness and pricing policies of its customers. a failure by one of the company large retail customers would adversely impact the company sales and operating cash flows. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. the company principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. the rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices, and delivering products with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with the company products. the combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major retailer customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions and retailer consolidation. the intense competition in the retail sector combined with the overall economic environment may result in a number of retailers experiencing financial difficulty or failing in the future. as a result of these factors, the company may experience a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. if the company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the company ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted. the company long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products that create demand. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company products. the company strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. there are, nevertheless, numerous uncertainties inherent in successfully developing and commercializing innovative new products on a continuing basis, and new product launches may not deliver expected growth in sales or operating income. if the company does not continue to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands, its operating results may suffer. the company ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain consumer-meaningful brands so that the company retailer and other customers will need the company products to meet consumer demand. consumer-meaningful brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands requires significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to continue to increase 9 table of contents its expenditures for advertising and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the increased investment may not deliver the anticipated results. price increases in raw materials and sourced products could harm the company financial results. the company purchases raw materials, including resin, principally polyethylene and polypropylene, corrugate, steel, gold, zinc, brass and aluminum, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures. the company attempts to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts and sales price adjustments. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. also, as part of its strategy to achieve best total cost, the company increasingly relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. raw material and sourced product price increases may more than offset the company productivity gains and price increases and could materially impact the company financial results. the company plans to continue to improve productivity and streamline operations may not be successful, which would adversely affect its ability to compete. the company success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building. the company completed project acceleration in 2010, and the primary objective of project acceleration was to reduce manufacturing overhead and streamline the supply chain to achieve best cost. in addition, the company continuously explores ways and initiates projects, such as the european transformation plan, to best leverage its functional capabilities such as human resources, information technology, customer service, supply chain management and finance in order to improve efficiency and reduce costs. the company runs the risk that the european transformation plan and other corporate initiatives aimed at streamlining operations and processes, cost reduction and improving overall financial results may not be completed substantially as planned or may be more costly to implement than expected. in addition, these initiatives as well as project acceleration may not have the positive effects anticipated. it is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future. in addition, disruptions in the company ability to supply products on a timely basis, which may be incidental to any problems in the company implementation of sap or other programs, could adversely affect the company future results. if the company is unable to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses, the company future growth could be adversely impacted. although the company has, in recent years, increasingly emphasized internal growth rather than growth by acquisition, the company ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully, including obtaining anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, remain important factors in the company future growth. furthermore, the company ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the company financial position and access to credit markets. in addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the company borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the company future access to capital. circumstances associated with divestitures could adversely affect the company results of operations and financial condition. the company continues to evaluate the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products and may decide to sell or discontinue a business based on such an evaluation. a decision to divest or discontinue a business may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers (or prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing) or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company business; and the potential loss of key employees. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business. 10 table of contents the company is subject to risks related to its international operations and sourcing model. international operations, especially in europe, but also in asia, central and south america and canada, are important to the company business, and the company strategy emphasizes international growth. in addition, as the company increasingly sources products in low-cost countries, particularly in asia, it is exposed to additional risks and uncertainties. foreign operations can be affected by factors such as currency devaluation; other currency fluctuations; tariffs; nationalization; exchange controls; labor inflation; interest rates; limitations on foreign investment in local business; and other political, economic and regulatory risks and difficulties. the company also faces risks due to the transportation and logistical complexities inherent in increased reliance on foreign sourcing. venezuela was designated as a highly inflationary economy effective january 1, 2010, and, accordingly, gains and losses resulting from the translation of the net assets (excluding non-monetary assets) of subsidiaries operating in venezuela into u.s. dollars are recorded in earnings. see footnote 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. the inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect the company ability to manufacture and market its products. the company purchases raw materials to be used in manufacturing its products. in addition, the company is placing increasing reliance on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. the company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its suppliers or sourcing partners. most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis; however, in limited cases where the company has supply contracts with fixed prices, the company may be required to purchase raw materials at above-market prices, which could adversely impact gross margins. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by the company suppliers and/or sourcing partners or changes in the company relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent the company from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. complications in connection with the company current information system initiative may adversely impact its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the company is in the process of replacing various business information systems worldwide with an enterprise resource planning system from sap. to date, the north american operations of 12 of the company 13 gbus have successfully gone live with their sap implementation efforts. these go-lives are the first major milestones in a multi-year implementation that will occur in several phases, primarily based on geographic region and segment. this activity involves the migration of multiple legacy systems and users to a common sap information platform. throughout this process, the company is changing the way it conducts business and employees roles in processing and utilizing information. in addition, this conversion will impact certain interfaces with the company customers and suppliers, resulting in changes to the manner in which the company takes orders, procures materials, schedules production, remits billings, makes payments and performs other business functions. based upon the complexity of this initiative, there is risk that the company will be unable to complete the implementation in accordance with its timeline and will incur additional costs. the implementation could result in operating inefficiencies, and the implementation could impact the company ability to perform necessary business transactions. all of these risks could adversely impact the company results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, including patent infringement litigation involving endicia, a material adverse change in the company relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company stock price. the company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, the company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. the company businesses are subject to regulation in the u.s. and abroad. changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the company does business. this includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. accordingly, the company ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal matters without significant liability could require the company to take significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting 11 table of contents period, which could materially impact the company results. in addition, new regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the company results of operations. lastly, as a u.s.-based multi-national company, the company is also subject to tax regulations in the u.s. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. for example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the u.s. is not taxed in the u.s., provided those earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s. if these or other tax regulations should change, the company financial results could be impacted. the resolution of the company tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions outside the u.s. significant estimation and judgment is required in determining the company worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. actions by the company counterparty to the accelerated stock buyback may affect the market for the company common stock. in connection with the company accelerated stock buyback, the company expects that its counterparty will purchase shares (or otherwise acquire long positions in shares ) of company common stock in the open market until it has acquired (or otherwise has long positions in) the number of shares the company will receive under the accelerated stock buyback contract. we expect that these acquisitions (and other transactions) will include covering purchases to close out stock borrow positions taken on by the counterparty to make its initial deliveries of shares to the company. in addition, we expect that the counterparty may be purchasing or selling, or both purchasing and selling (and possibly taking on other long and/or short positions in company common stock), in other hedging transactions related to the accelerated stock buyback. all of these market transactions in the company shares (or in derivative or other transactions related to company shares) would be for the counterparty own account. although the magnitude and effect of such activities on the market price of the company common stock cannot be determined at this time, such activities may increase, or prevent a decrease in, the market price of the common stock. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect the company financial results or harm its reputation or the value of its end-user brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of the company products arise in the ordinary course of the company business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company products. the company could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although the company maintains product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention or could be excluded under the terms of the policy. if the company is unable to access the capital markets to refinance its maturing short-term debt, its borrowing costs could increase. as of december 31, 2010, the company had $305.0 million of debt that it will be required to refinance or repay within the next 12 months. it is possible that the company may seek to address its short-term obligations through the capital markets or other arrangements. however, access to the capital markets cannot be assured, and although the company believes that alternative arrangements will be available to refinance these obligations, such arrangements could result in an increase in the company borrowing costs. a reduction in the company credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company current senior debt credit ratings from moody investors service, standard &amp; poor and fitch ratings are baa3, bbb- and bbb, respectively. its current short-term debt credit ratings from moody investors service, standard &amp; poor and fitch ratings are p-3, a-3 and f-2, respectively. standard &amp; poor has a positive outlook on its rating while moody and fitch have a stable outlook on their ratings. the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. a downgrade by moody or standard &amp; poor s, which would reduce the company senior debt below investment grade, could increase the company borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the company financial results. the company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future 12 table of contents financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would further limit, or eliminate entirely, the company access to the commercial paper market. the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore the company estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, the company future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk the company market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. pursuant to the company policies, natural hedging techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse changes in rates and prices. the company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes. interest rates interest rate risk is present with both fixed- and floating-rate debt. the company manages its interest rate exposure through its mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt and its conservative debt ratio target. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate the company exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of the company fixed-rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. excluding debt for which a fixed rate has been swapped for a floating rate, fixed-rate debt represented approximately 43.7% of the company $2.37 billion of total debt as of december 31, 2010. foreign currency exchange rates the company is exposed to foreign currency risk in the ordinary course of business since a portion of the company sales, expenses and operating transactions is conducted on a global basis in various foreign currencies. to the extent that business transactions are not denominated in the functional currency of the entity entering into the transaction, the company is exposed to transactional foreign currency exchange rate risk. the company foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts as economic hedges for commercial transactions and to offset the future impact of gains and losses resulting from changes in the expected amount of functional currency cash flows to be received or paid upon settlement of the anticipated intercompany and third-party commercial transactions. gains and losses related to the settlement of qualifying hedges of commercial and intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions. the company also uses natural hedging techniques such as offsetting or netting like foreign currency flows and denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency. the company also incurs gains and losses recorded within shareholders equity due to the translation of the financial statements from the functional currency of its subsidiaries to u.s. dollars. the company utilizes capital structures of foreign subsidiaries combined with forward contracts to minimize its exposure to foreign currency risk. the company may hedge portions of its net investments in foreign subsidiaries, including intercompany loans, with forward contracts and cross-currency hedges. gains and losses related to qualifying forward exchange contracts and cross-currency hedges, which are generally used to hedge intercompany loans and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss). commodity prices the company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, corrugate, steel, stainless steel, aluminum and other metals, which are subject to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. the company resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene and polypropylene in roughly equal quantities. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the company address this risk. where practical, the company uses derivatives as part of its risk management process. financial instruments in managing the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, the company uses interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and cross-currency swaps. derivatives were recorded at fair value in the company consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2010 as follows (in millions) : prepaid expenses and other $ 2.6 other assets 42.3 other accrued liabilities $ (2.0 ) see footnote 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on derivatives. 42 table of contents value at risk the amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the company could incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the value-at-risk estimation model. the value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. it estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a variance/covariance approach and includes substantially all market risk exposures (specifically excluding equity-method investments). the fair value losses shown in the table below represent the company estimate of the maximum loss that could arise in one day. the amounts presented in the table are shown as an illustration of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. the following table sets forth the one day value-at-risk as of and for the year ended december 31, ( in millions, except percentages ): market risk (1) 2010 average december 31, 2010 2009 average december 31, 2009 confidence level interest rates $ 9.8 $ 11.5 $ 12.2 $ 9.6 95% foreign exchange $ 12.2 $ 11.2 $ 12.8 $ 12.3 95% (1) the company generally does not enter into material derivative contracts for commodities; therefore, commodity price risk is not shown because the amounts are not material. the 95% confidence interval signifies the company degree of confidence that actual losses would not exceed the estimated losses shown above. the amounts shown here disregard the possibility that interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the company favor. the value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. actual experience has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is highly unlikely that the company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time. additionally, since the company operates globally, and therefore, among a broad basket of currencies, its foreign currency exposure is diversified. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors the ownership of the company common stock involves a number of risks and uncertainties. potential investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this annual report on form 10-k before deciding whether to invest in the company securities. the company business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the risks described below are not the only ones facing the company. additional risks that are currently unknown to the company or that the company currently considers to be immaterial may also impair its business or adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world. the company business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, latin america and asia. these sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, are affected by general economic conditions. with continuing challenging global economic conditions, particularly outside of the u.s., there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact on consumer spending has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on demand for the company products, as well as its financial condition and results of operations. the company could also be negatively impacted by economic crises in specific countries or regions. such events could negatively impact the company overall liquidity and/or create significant credit risks relative to its local customers and depository institutions. consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of these factors could adversely impact the company business. 8 table of contents the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers and e-commerce companies. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. the company principal customers are large retailers such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. the dominant share of the market represented by these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, has contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and products tailored to each of their unique requirements, requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices in response to competitive, economic or other factors, and requiring product delivery with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands, typically at lower prices, that compete with the company products. the combination of these market influences and retailer consolidation has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions. the intense competition in the retail and e-commerce sectors, combined with the overall economic environment, may result in a number of customers experiencing financial difficulty, or failing in the future. for example, the company results in 2017 were impacted negatively by the reorganization filing of a major customer in the baby division within the live segment. in particular, a loss of, or a failure by, one of the company large customers could adversely impact the company sales and operating cash flows. to address these challenges, the company must be able to respond to competitive factors, and the failure to respond effectively could result in a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. the company sales are dependent on purchases from several large customers and any significant decline in these purchases or pressure from these customers to reduce prices could have a negative effect on the company future financial performance. the company customer base is relatively fragmented. although the company has long-established relationships with many customers, the company generally does not have any long-term supply or binding contracts or guarantees of minimum purchases with its largest customers. purchases by these customers are generally made using individual purchase orders. as a result, these customers may cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, delay purchases for a number of reasons beyond the company control or change other terms of the business relationship. significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in purchases or changes in business practices or by customers could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, because many of the company costs are fixed, a reduction in customer demand could have an adverse effect on the company gross profit margins and operating income. the company depends on a continuous flow of new orders from large, high-volume retail customers; however, the company may be unable to continually meet the needs of these customers. retailers are increasing their demands on suppliers to: reduce lead times for product delivery, which may require the company to increase inventories and could impact the timing of reported sales; improve customer service, such as with direct import programs, whereby product is supplied directly to retailers from third-party suppliers; and adopt technologies related to inventory management such as radio frequency identification, otherwise known as rfid technology, which may have substantial implementation costs. the company cannot provide any assurance that it can continue to successfully meet the needs of its customers. a substantial decrease in sales to any of its major customers could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company customers may further consolidate, which could materially adversely affect its sales and margins. the company customers have steadily consolidated over the last two decades. the company expects any customers that consolidate will take actions to harmonize pricing from their suppliers, close retail outlets and rationalize their supply chain, which could adversely affect the company business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that, following consolidation, the company large customers will continue to buy from the company across different product categories or geographic regions, or at 9 table of contents the same levels as prior to consolidation, which could negatively impact the company financial results. further, if the consolidation trend continues, it could result in future pricing and other competitive pressures that could reduce the company sales and margins and have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company plans to continue to improve productivity and reduce complexity and costs may not be successful, which would materially adversely affect its ability to compete. the company success depends on its ability to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline or redeploy nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building, including advertising and promotion. the company is currently in the process of delivering the cost synergies related to the acquisition of jarden. both efforts are global initiatives designed to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in the company most significant growth platforms. project renewal and the company cost saving plans associated with the jarden integration may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not result in, in full or in part, the positive effects anticipated. in addition, such initiatives require the company to implement a significant amount of organizational change, which could have a negative impact on employee engagement, divert management attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, impact the company ability to retain key employees, cause disruptions in the company day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on the company financial results. it is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future. if the company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the company ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted. the company strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. its long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products and line extensions that create demand. new product development and commercialization efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. these risks include the costs involved, such as development and commercialization, product development or launch delays, and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance or growth in sales or operating income. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company products. in addition, sales generated by new products or line extensions could cause a decline in sales of the company existing products. if new product development and commercialization efforts are not successful, the company financial results could be adversely affected. if the company does not continue to develop and maintain leading brands or realize the anticipated benefits of increased advertising and promotion spend, its operating results may suffer. the company ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain leading brands so that the company retailer and other customers will need the company products to meet consumer demand. leading brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to continue to increase its expenditures for advertising and promotion and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the initiatives may not deliver the anticipated results and the results of such initiatives may not cover the costs of the increased investment. the company incurred substantial additional indebtedness in connection with the jarden acquisition which could materially adversely affect the company and its financial position, including decreasing its business flexibility and increasing its borrowing costs. the company incurred an additional $6.5 billion of debt (excluding approximately $4.1 billion of jarden debt refinanced in connection with the acquisition) in connection with the completion of the jarden acquisition. following completion of the jarden acquisition, the company substantially increased its debt compared to its recent historical levels. this increased level of debt will increase the company interest expense and could have the effect, among other things, of reducing the company flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. in addition, if the company is unable to timely reduce its level of indebtedness, the company will be subject to increased demands on its cash resources, which could increase its total debt-to-capitalization ratios, decrease its interest coverage ratios, result in a breach of covenants or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the company. an increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the company business. while the vast majority of the company debt is fixed, fluctuations in interest rates can increase borrowing costs on the portion that is variable and interest rate increases on this portion of the company debt could have a material adverse effect on the company business. in response to the last global economic recession, extraordinary monetary policy actions of the u.s. federal reserve and 10 table of contents other central banking institutions, including the utilization of quantitative easing, were taken to create and maintain a low interest rate environment. however, in both december 2015 and december 2016, the u.s. federal reserve raised its benchmark interest rate, each time by a quarter of a percentage point. in 2017, the u.s. federal reserve again raised its benchmark interest rate in march, june and december, each time by a quarter of a percentage point. while it is unclear whether such action over the last three years suggests a change in previous monetary policy positions, any such change or market expectation of such change may result in significantly higher long-term interest rates. such a transition may be abrupt and may, among other things, reduce the availability and/or increase the costs of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness. if the company is unable to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate its acquired businesses, the company future growth and profitability could be adversely impacted. the company ability to continue to make strategic acquisitions and to integrate the acquired businesses successfully remain important factors in the company future growth. in 2017, the company completed the acquisitions of sistema plastics, a new zealand-based provider of food storage containers primarily under the sistema &reg; brand, smith mountain industries, a provider of home fragrance products, primarily under the woodwick &reg; candle and chesapeake bay candle &reg; brands, a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of premium candles and other home fragrance products, focused on consumer wellness and natural fragrance. in april 2016, the company completed the acquisition of jarden corporation, which had recently acquired jostens, inc. and waddington group inc. the company ability to successfully integrate these or any other acquired business is dependent upon its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, integrate and manage product lines that have been acquired, obtain anticipated cost savings and operating income improvements within a reasonable period of time, assume unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized or known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, and manage unanticipated demands on the company management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. furthermore, the company ability to finance major acquisitions may be adversely affected by the company financial position and access to credit markets. in addition, significant additional borrowings would increase the company borrowing costs and could adversely affect its credit rating and could constrain the company future access to capital. the company may not successfully manage these or other risks it may encounter in acquiring and integrating a business or product line, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. circumstances associated with divestitures and product line exits could adversely affect the company results of operations and financial condition. the company continually evaluates the performance and strategic fit of its businesses and products. in june 2016, the company completed the sale of its d&eacute;cor business, which comprised its levolor &reg; and kirsch &reg; window coverings brands. in march 2017, the company completed the sale of its tools business which comprised the irwin &reg; lenox &reg; and hilmor &reg; brands. in july 2017, the company completed the sale of its winter sports business, which included the v&ouml;lkl &reg; and k2 &reg; brands. in the third quarter of 2017, the company completed the sale of the remaining portions of its rubbermaid &reg; consumer storage totes business. the company may decide to sell or discontinue other businesses or products in the future based on an evaluation of performance and strategic fit. on january 25, 2018, the company announced that it will explore a series of strategic initiatives to accelerate its transformation plan, improve operational performance and enhance shareholder value. the components of that plan include exploring the sale of a number of the industrial, commercial and small consumer businesses such as waddington; process solutions; rubbermaid commercial products; mapa; rawlings; goody; rubbermaid outdoor, closet, refuse and garage; and us playing cards. a decision to divest or discontinue a business or product may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner and prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company business; and the potential loss of key employees. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or exiting product lines, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. the company operating results can be adversely affected by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services. 11 table of contents pricing and availability of raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services for use in the company businesses can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond its control, including general, domestic and international economic conditions, natural disasters, labor costs, production levels, competition, consumer demand, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. for example, in 2017 the company results were negatively impacted by raw material and transportation cost inflation and shortages resulting from hurricanes in the united states. this volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials, energy, transportation and other supplies and services for the company, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company success is dependent, in part, on its continued ability to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts, sales price adjustments and certain derivative instruments, while maintaining and improving margins and market share. also, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. during periods of rising prices of raw materials, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to pass any portion of such increases on to customers. conversely, when raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent the company has existing inventory, lower margins. as a result, fluctuations in raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. some of the products the company manufactures require particular types of glass, metal, paper, plastic, resin, wax, wood or other materials. supply shortages for a particular type of material can delay production or cause increases in the cost of manufacturing the company products. this could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company operations are dependent upon third-party vendors and suppliers whose failure to perform adequately could disrupt the company business operations. the company currently sources a significant portion of parts and products from third parties. the company ability to select and retain reliable vendors and suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products will impact the company success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. in many cases, the company does not enter into long-term contracts with its primary vendors and suppliers, instead buying parts and products on a purchase order basis. as a result, the company may be subject to unexpected changes in pricing or supply of products. the ability of third-party suppliers to timely deliver finished goods and/or raw materials, and the ability of the company own facilities to timely deliver finished goods, may be affected by events beyond their control, such as inability of shippers to timely deliver merchandise due to work stoppages or slowdowns, or significant weather and health conditions affecting manufacturers and/or shippers. any adverse change in the company relationships with its third-party suppliers, the financial condition of third-party suppliers, the ability of third-party suppliers to manufacture and deliver outsourced parts or products on a timely basis, or the company ability to import products from third-party suppliers or its own facilities could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the financial condition of the company vendors and suppliers may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, such as credit difficulties and the uncertain macroeconomic environment in recent years. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. for example, certain businesses in the baby division have a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of their sales and which owns intellectual property rights in respect of many of those products. should any of these single source suppliers fail to manufacture sufficient supply, go out of business or discontinue a particular component, the company may not be able to find alternative vendors and suppliers in a timely manner, if at all. any inability of the company vendors and suppliers to timely deliver quality parts and products or any unanticipated change in supply, quality or pricing of products could be disruptive and costly to the company. the company cannot assure you that it could quickly or effectively replace any of its suppliers if the need arose, and the company cannot assure you that it could retrieve tooling and molds possessed by any of its third-party suppliers. the company dependence on these few suppliers could also adversely affect its ability to react quickly and effectively to changes in the market for its products. changes in foreign, cultural, political and financial market conditions could impair the company international operations and financial performance. some of the company operations are conducted or products are sold in countries where economic growth has slowed, such as brazil; or where economies have suffered economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation; or where the ability to repatriate funds has been significantly delayed or impaired. current government economic and fiscal policies in these economies, including stimulus measures and currency exchange rates and controls, may not be sustainable and, as a result, the company sales or 12 table of contents profits related to those countries may decline. the economies of other foreign countries important to the company operations could also suffer slower economic growth or economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation in the future. the company international operations (and particularly its business in emerging markets), including manufacturing and sourcing operations (and the international operations of the company customers), are subject to inherent risks which could adversely affect the company, including, among other things: protectionist policies restricting or impairing the manufacturing, sales or import and export of the company products; new restrictions on access to markets; lack of developed infrastructure; inflation (including hyperinflation) or recession; devaluations or fluctuations in the value of currencies; changes in and the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, tax laws, accounting standards, trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements, environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws; social, political or economic instability; acts of war and terrorism; natural disasters or other crises; reduced protection of intellectual property rights; increases in duties and taxation; restrictions on transfer of funds and/or exchange of currencies; expropriation of assets or forced relocations of operations; and other adverse changes in policies, including monetary, tax and/or lending policies, encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by host countries. should any of these risks occur, the company ability to manufacture, source, sell or export its products or repatriate profits could be impaired; the company could experience a loss of sales and profitability from its international operations; and/or the company could experience a substantial impairment or loss of assets, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the company business. the company has foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect the company operating results, financial condition and liquidity. the financial position and results of operations of many of the company international subsidiaries are initially recorded in various foreign currencies and then translated into u.s. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in the company financial statements. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against these foreign currencies ordinarily has a negative impact on the company reported sales, operating margin and operating income (and conversely, the weakening of the u.s. dollar has a positive impact). for the year ended december 31, 2017, foreign currency favorably affected reported sales by $34 million compared to prior year; however, the volatility of foreign exchange rates is unpredictable and could materially adversely affect the company operating results. the company realizes margin impacts from changes in foreign currency because the company costs for produced and sourced products are largely denominated in u.s. dollars, and the company international operations generally sell the company products at prices denominated in local currencies. when local currencies decline in value relative to the u.s. dollar in the regions in which the company sells products whose costs are denominated in u.s. dollars, the company international businesses would need to increase the local currency sales prices of the products and/or reduce costs through productivity or other initiatives in order to maintain the same level of profitability. the company may not be able to increase the selling prices of its products in its international businesses due to market dynamics, competition or otherwise and may not realize cost reductions through productivity or other initiatives. as a result, gross margins and overall operating results of the company international businesses would be adversely affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens. the company has been adversely impacted by developments in venezuela, including the significant devaluations of the venezuelan bolivar that have occurred in recent years, the declining availability of u.s. dollars and the implementation of pricing and exchange controls in venezuela. as of december 31, 2015, the company determined that it no longer could exercise control over the operations of its venezuela subsidiary. accordingly, the company deconsolidated its venezuela subsidiary on december 31, 2015 and recorded a pretax charge of $173 million. 13 table of contents future government actions, including but not limited to, currency devaluations, import authorization controls, foreign exchange controls, price or profit controls or expropriation or other forms of government take-over, could adversely impact the company business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and footnote 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. a failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on the company business or reputation. the company relies extensively on information technology (it) systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting business. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: ordering and managing materials from suppliers; converting materials to finished products; shipping products to customers; marketing and selling products to consumers; collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and personal data; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processes necessary to manage the company business. increased it security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the company it systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the company data. the company operations, especially its retail operations, involve the storage and transmission of employees , customers and consumers proprietary information, such as credit card and bank account numbers. the company payment services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards or bank account information, identity theft or merchant fraud. if the it systems, networks or service providers relied upon fail to function properly, or if the company suffers a loss or disclosure of customers and consumers data, business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations, a risk of government enforcement action, litigation and possible liability, and reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely impact the company results of operations and/or financial condition. as techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, the company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of the company security occurs, the public perception of the effectiveness of the company security measures could be harmed and the company could lose customers and consumers, which could adversely affect its business. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company financial results. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, a material adverse change in the company relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company stock price. the company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on the company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, the company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. the company businesses and operations are subject to regulation in the u.s. and abroad. 14 table of contents changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the company does business. this includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. accordingly, the company ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal and environmental matters without significant liability could require the company to record significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the company results. in addition, new regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis, significantly restrict the company ability to sell certain products, or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the company results of operations. as a u.s.-based multinational company, the company is also subject to tax regulations in the u.s. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. if these or other tax regulations should change, the company financial results could be materially impacted. see footnote 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. the company may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental remediation obligations. in addition to operational standards, environmental laws also impose obligations on various entities to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. accordingly, the company may be liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by the company, is a landfill or other location where it has disposed wastes, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to the company ownership or operation of the property. given the nature of the past industrial operations conducted by the company and others at these properties, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination have been identified, even for those properties where an environmental site assessment has been conducted. the company does not believe that any of the company existing remediation obligations, including at third-party sites where it has been named a potentially responsible party, will have a material adverse effect upon its business, results of operations or financial condition. however, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities that may be material. see environmental matters under footnote 19 of the notes to the company consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2017 for a further discussion of these and other environmental-related matters. the company may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. the company success at implementing project renewal, the growth game plan, the integration of jarden and its future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the company business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. the company success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the company can retain its key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. the resolution of the company tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions outside the u.s. significant estimation and judgment are required in determining the company worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by various worldwide tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. the company business involves the potential for product recalls, product liability and other claims against it, which could affect its earnings and financial condition. 15 table of contents as a manufacturer and distributor of consumer products, the company is subject to the consumer products safety act of 1972, which empowers the consumer products safety commission to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous, and similar laws under foreign jurisdictions. under certain circumstances, the consumer products safety commission or a comparable foreign agency could require the company to repurchase or recall one or more of its products. additionally, other laws and agencies, such as the national highway transportation safety administration, regulate certain consumer products sold by the company in the united states and abroad, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. any repurchase or recall of the company products could be costly and damaging to the company reputation. if the company were required to remove, or it voluntarily removed, its products from the market, the company reputation could be tarnished and the company might have large quantities of finished products that it could not sell. the company also faces exposure to product liability claims in the event that one of its products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments or fines or penalties that may result from any governmental investigations, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company products. although the company maintains product liability insurance in amounts that it believes are reasonable, that insurance is, in most cases, subject to large self-insured retentions for which the company is responsible, and the company cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future or that product liability claims will not exceed the amount of insurance coverage. additionally, the company does not maintain product recall insurance. as a result, product recalls or product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company faces potential other types of litigation arising out of alleged defects in its products or otherwise, such as class action lawsuits. the company does not maintain insurance against many types of claims involving alleged defects in its products that do not involve personal injury or property damage. the company spends substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental and other applicable standards. however, compliance with these standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. as a result, these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company product liability insurance program is an occurrence-based program based on its current and historical claims experience and the availability and cost of insurance. the company currently either self-insures or administers a high retention insurance program for most product liability risks. historically, product liability awards have rarely exceeded the company individual per occurrence self-insured retention. the company cannot assure you, however, that its future product liability experience will be consistent with its past experience or that claims and awards subject to self-insured retention will not be material. see footnote 19 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2017 for a further discussion of these and other regulatory and litigation-related matters. if the company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect the company market share and results of operations. the company success with its proprietary products depends, in part, on its ability to protect its current and future technologies and products and to defend its intellectual property rights, including its patent and trademark rights. if the company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. the company holds numerous design and utility patents covering a wide variety of products. the company cannot be sure that it will receive patents for any of its patent applications or that any existing or future patents that it receives or licenses will provide competitive advantages for its products. the company also cannot be sure that competitors will not challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of any existing or future patents that the company receives or licenses. in addition, patent rights may not prevent competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to the company products. a reduction in the company credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, the company cost of capital. the company credit ratings reflect each rating organization opinion of its financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its debt obligations. the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. a downgrade by moody investor services, inc. ( moody ) or standard &amp; poor ratings services ( standard &amp; poor ), which would reduce the company senior debt below investment-grade, would increase the company borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the company financial results. specifically, the interest rate payable on notes issued in march 2016 are subject to adjustment from time to time if either moody or standard &amp; poor downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) its rating assigned to the notes, though the interest on these notes will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in ratings by either credit rating agency), if such notes become rated baa1 or higher by moody and bbb+ or higher by standard &amp; poors, in each case with stable or positive outlook. in addition, in the event of a reduction in credit rating, the company would likely be 16 table of contents required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would limit, or eliminate entirely, the company access to the commercial paper market. the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore the company estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company pension and postretirement benefit plans are determined by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, expected health care costs, or mortality rates, the company future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. damage to the company reputation could have an adverse effect on the company business . maintaining the company strong reputation with consumers and suppliers worldwide is critical to the company continued success. adverse publicity about the company, its brands, corporate practices, or any other issue that may be associated with the company, whether or not deserved, could jeopardize that reputation. such adverse publicity could come from traditional sources such as government investigations or public or private litigation, but may also arise from negative comments on social media regarding the company or its brands. damage to the company reputation or a loss of consumer confidence in the company brands could adversely affect the company business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as require resources to repair the harm. governmental investigations or actions by other third parties could have a material adverse effect on management and the company business operations. the company is subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. responding to governmental investigations or actions by regulatory bodies may be both time-consuming and disruptive to the company operations and could divert the attention of management and key personnel from the company business operations. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact the company global business. as of december 31, 2017, the company had approximately 49,000 employees, 12,000 of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries that have collective arrangements decreed by statute. the company periodically negotiates with certain unions representing company employees and may be subject to work stoppages or may be unable to renew such collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. a potential proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting could result in potential operational disruption, divert our resources and could potentially result in adverse consequences under certain of our debt documents and other agreements. on february 8, 2018, starboard value and opportunity master fund ltd. ( starboard ) delivered a letter to us nominating 10 director candidates for election to the board at our 2018 annual meeting of shareholders (the 2018 annual meeting ). if starboard is successful, it is possible that starboard-nominated directors could constitute a majority of the board following the 2018 annual meeting. 17 table of contents a proxy contest would require us to incur significant legal fees and proxy solicitation expenses and could result in potential operational disruption. further, any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and control could result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. if starboard is able to replace a majority of our existing board members, such a substantial board turnover may constitute a change of control for purposes of our indentures and notes issued thereunder. in such event, absent amendment, consent or other action, certain outstanding series of our debt may require that we make a change of control offer at 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest if the change of control is accompanied by a rating event, which generally would require, among other things, a downgrade of our debt rating below investment grade by two of the three rating agencies within specified time periods. in addition, a change of control under these notes could, absent amendment, consent or other action, trigger a termination event under our securitization facility. in the event starboard proceeds with its threatened election contest, the company and its board will evaluate what amendments, consents, determinations or technical actions could or should be made to address the potential adverse consequences to the company from a potential change of control with respect to any outstanding indebtedness. further, a change in a majority of the board may, under certain circumstances, result in a change of control under employment security agreements we have with our executive management, as well as our 2013 incentive plan and equity based awards issued thereunder. pursuant to the agreements and awards, certain payments and vesting provisions may be triggered following a change of control, either immediately or conditioned upon a qualifying termination that occurs within 24 months of any such change of control. the occurrence of any of the foregoing events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk in general, business enterprises can be exposed to market risks including fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices, and that can affect the cost of operating, investing and financing under those conditions. the company believes it has moderate exposure to these risks. the company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on hypothetical changes in rates and prices. the company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable rate debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. as such, the company monitors the interest rate environment and uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk and price risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable interest rates while attempting to minimize interest costs. as of december 31, 2017, approximately $1.1 billion of the company debt carries a variable rate of interest either by nature or through the use of interest rate swaps. the remainder of the debt (approximately $9.4 billion) carries a fixed rate of interest. based upon the company debt structure at december 31, 2017, a hypothetical 1% increase in these interest rates would increase interest expense by approximately $11 million and decrease the fair values of debt by approximately $743 million. while the company transacts business predominantly in u.s. dollars and most of its revenues are collected in u.s. dollars, a substantial portion of the company operating costs are denominated in other currencies, such as the brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro, japanese yen and mexican peso. changes in the relation of these and other currencies to the u.s. dollar will affect company sales and profitability and could result in exchange losses. for 2017, approximately 29% of the company sales were denominated in foreign currencies, the most significant of which were: european euro-approximately 8.0%; and canadian dollar-approximately 5.8%. the primary purpose of the company foreign currency hedging activities is to mitigate the foreign currency exchange rate exposure on the cash flows related to forecasted inventory purchases and sales. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material effect on foreign currency gains and losses related to the foreign currency derivatives or the net fair value of the company foreign currency derivatives. the company is exposed to the price risk that the rising cost of commodities has on certain of its raw materials. as such, the company monitors the commodities markets and from time to time the company enters into commodity-based derivatives in order to mitigate the impact that the rising price of these commodities has on the cost of certain of the company raw materials. a hypothetical 10% change in the commodity prices underlying the derivatives would not have a material effect on the related gains and losses included in the company results of operations. in this sensitivity analysis, all other assumptions are constant and assumes that a change in one currency rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not impact another currency rates relative to the u.s. dollar. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to its derivative financial instruments, all of which are highly rated institutions; however, the company does not anticipate non-performance by such counterparties. the company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 44 table of contentsrisk factors 4 risk factors the ownership of the company common stock involves a number of risks and uncertainties. potential investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this annual report on form 10-k before deciding whether to invest in the company securities. the company business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the risks described below are not the only ones facing the company. additional risks that are currently unknown to the company or that the company currently considers to be immaterial may also impair its business or adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. the company is subject to risks related to its dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world. the company business depends on the strength of the retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in various parts of the world, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent europe, latin america and asia. these sectors of the economy are affected primarily by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which, in turn, can be affected by specific events or general economic conditions, including worldwide or country-specific economic instability. for example, uncertainty over the terms and timing of the united kingdom departure from the european union has caused political and economic uncertainty in the united kingdom and the rest of europe, which could harm consumer demand and ultimately adversely impact the company business. likewise, the failure of large employers to consistently pay workers similar to what recently occurred during the partial u.s. federal government shutdown, could also adversely affect consumer demand and the company business. similarly, with continuing challenging global economic conditions, particularly outside of the u.s., and recent volatility in domestic and foreign equity markets, there has been considerable pressure on consumer demand, and the resulting impact 4 table of contents on consumer spending has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on demand for the company products, as well as its financial condition and results of operations. the company could also be negatively impacted by economic crises in specific countries or regions. such events could negatively impact the company overall liquidity and/or create significant credit risks relative to its local customers and depository institutions. consumer demand and the condition of these sectors of the economy may also be impacted by other external factors such as war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. the impact of these external factors is difficult to predict, and one or more of these factors could adversely impact the company business. the company is subject to intense competition in a marketplace dominated by large retailers and e-commerce companies. the company competes with numerous other manufacturers and distributors of consumer and commercial products, many of which are large and well-established. the company principal customers are large retailers such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. the dominant share of the market represented by these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, has contributed to the formation of dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, reducing inventory levels, demanding innovative new products and products tailored to each of their unique requirements, requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices in response to competitive, economic or other factors, and requiring product delivery with shorter lead times. other trends are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands, typically at lower prices, that compete with the company products. the combination of these market influences and retailer consolidation has created an intensely competitive environment in which the company principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. the company also faces the risk of changes in the strategy or structure of its major customers, such as overall store and inventory reductions. the intense competition in the retail and e-commerce sectors may result in a number of customers experiencing financial difficulty, or failing in the future. for example, the company results were impacted negatively by the bankruptcy and liquidation of toys r us. in particular, a loss of, or a failure by, another one of the company large customers could adversely impact the company sales and operating cash flows. to address these challenges, the company must be able to respond to competitive factors, and the failure to respond effectively could result in a loss of sales, reduced profitability and a limited ability to recover cost increases through price increases. the company sales are dependent on purchases from several large customers and any significant decline in these purchases or pressure from these customers to reduce prices could have a negative effect on the company future financial performance. the company customer base is relatively fragmented. although the company has long-established relationships with many customers, the company generally does not have any long-term supply or binding contracts or guarantees of minimum purchases with its largest customers. purchases by these customers are generally made using individual purchase orders. as a result, these customers may cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, delay purchases for a number of reasons beyond the company control or change other terms of the business relationship. significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in purchases or changes in business practices by customers could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, because many of the company costs are fixed, a reduction in customer demand could have an adverse effect on the company gross profit margins and operating income. the company depends on a continuous flow of new orders from large, high-volume retail customers; however, the company may be unable to continually meet the needs of these customers. retailers are increasing their demands on suppliers to: reduce lead times for product delivery, which may require the company to increase inventories and could impact the timing of reported sales; improve customer service, such as with direct import programs, whereby product is supplied directly to retailers from third-party suppliers; and adopt technologies related to inventory management such as radio frequency identification, otherwise known as rfid technology, which may have substantial implementation costs. the company cannot provide any assurance that it can continue to successfully meet the needs of its customers. a substantial decrease in sales to any of its major customers could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. 5 table of contents the company customers may further consolidate, which could materially adversely affect the company sales and margins. the company customers have steadily consolidated over the last two decades. the company expects any customers that consolidate will take actions to harmonize pricing from their suppliers, close retail outlets and rationalize their supply chain, which could adversely affect the company business and results of operations. there can be no assurance that, following consolidation, the company large customers will continue to buy from the company across different product categories or geographic regions, or at the same levels as prior to consolidation, which could negatively impact the company financial results. further, if the consolidation trend continues, it could result in future pricing and other competitive pressures that could reduce the company sales and margins and have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company plans to integrate its acquired businesses and to improve productivity and reduce complexity and costs may not be successful, which would materially adversely affect its ability to compete. the company success depends on its ability to integrate acquired businesses, to continuously improve its manufacturing operations to gain efficiencies, reduce supply chain costs and streamline or redeploy nonstrategic selling, general and administrative expenses in order to produce products at a best-cost position and allow the company to invest in innovation and brand building, including advertising and promotion. the company accelerated transformation plan and the company cost saving plans may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not result in, in full or in part, the positive effects anticipated. both efforts are global initiatives designed to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in the company most significant growth platforms, including through divestment of the company industrial and commercial product assets and non-core consumer businesses. it is also possible that other major productivity, streamlining and divestment programs may be required in the future. also, the company may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, product lines, obtain related cost savings, or make operating income improvements within a reasonable amount of time. such initiatives require the company to implement a significant amount of organizational change, which could have a negative impact on employee engagement, divert management attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, impact the company ability to retain key employees, cause disruptions in the company day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on the company financial results. if the company is unable to commercialize a continuing stream of new products that create demand, the company ability to compete in the marketplace may be adversely impacted. the company strategy includes investment in new product development and a focus on innovation. its long-term success in the competitive retail environment and the industrial and commercial markets depends on its ability to develop and commercialize a continuing stream of innovative new products and line extensions that create demand. new product development and commercialization efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. these risks include the costs involved, such as development and commercialization, product development or launch delays, and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance or growth in sales or operating income. the company also faces the risk that its competitors will introduce innovative new products that compete with the company products. in addition, sales generated by new products or line extensions could cause a decline in sales of the company existing products. if new product development and commercialization efforts are not successful, the company financial results could be adversely affected. if the company does not continue to develop and maintain leading brands or realize the anticipated benefits of increased advertising and promotion spend, its operating results may suffer. the company ability to compete successfully also depends increasingly on its ability to develop and maintain leading brands so that the company retail and other customers will need the company products to meet consumer demand. leading brands allow the company to realize economies of scale in its operations. the development and maintenance of such brands require significant investment in brand-building and marketing initiatives. while the company plans to continue to increase its expenditures for advertising and promotion and other brand-building and marketing initiatives over the long term, the initiatives may not deliver the anticipated results and the results of such initiatives may not cover the costs of the increased investment. circumstances associated with divestitures and product line exits under the accelerated transformation plan could adversely affect the company results of operations and financial condition. on january 25, 2018, the company announced that it will explore a series of strategic initiatives to accelerate its transformation plan, improve operational performance and enhance shareholder value (the accelerated transformation plan ). the components of that plan included exploring the sale of a number of its industrial, commercial and small consumer businesses such as the waddington group; process solutions; rubbermaid commercial products; mapa; rawlings sporting goods company, inc., goody products, inc., rubbermaid outdoor, closet, refuse and garage; and the u.s. playing card company. on may 4, 2018, the company announced the expansion of its accelerated transformation plan, adding jostens and pure fishing to the list of divestitures previously announced. 6 table of contents pursuant to this plan, the company sold the rawlings sporting goods company, inc., the waddington group, goody products, inc., pure fishing and jostens during 2018. the company is continuing the divestiture process in 2019 and may decide to sell or discontinue other businesses or products in the future based on an evaluation of performance and strategic fit. divestitures or discontinuations of businesses or products may result in asset impairments, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and losses upon disposition, both of which could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner and prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. divestitures and business discontinuations could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the disruption of the company business; and the potential loss of key employees. the company may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that it may encounter in divesting or discontinuing a business or exiting product lines, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. failure to grow the company e-commerce business, and the cost of its increasing e-commerce investments, may materially adversely affect the company market position, net sales and financial performance. the retail industry is rapidly evolving and consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications. as a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate. at the same time, the portion of retail business at traditional brick and mortar stores and shopping centers is decreasing. the company accelerated transformation plan, includes investments in e-commerce, and investments in technology initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow the company to grow its e-commerce business, maintain or grow its overall market position or otherwise benefit the company. as a result, the company market position, net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, a greater concentration of e-commerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of sales by the company other customers, which could, if not offset by a greater increase in e-commerce sales, materially adversely affect the business of the company. furthermore, the cost of certain e-commerce and technology investments may adversely impact the company financial performance in the short-term and may adversely impact its financial performance over the longer term. there can be no assurance that investments in e-commerce infrastructure and technology will result in increased sales, through e-commerce or otherwise. if we fail to remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting or are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, it could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, and our failure to meet our reporting and financial obligations, which in turn could have a negative impact on our financial condition. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2018, management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting and concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of december 31, 2018 due to a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. the company did not design and maintain effective controls over the accounting for the impact of divestitures. specifically, the company did not design and maintain effective controls to ensure deferred taxes were included completely and accurately in the carrying values of assets held for sale and the intraperiod tax allocation between continuing and discontinued operations was accurate. in addition, the company did not design and maintain effective controls to ensure the current/noncurrent classification of assets held for sale was accurate. these deficiencies resulted in adjustments that were corrected in the assets and liabilities held for sale; loss from discontinued operations, net of tax; net loss and deferred income taxes accounts to the company condensed consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended september 30, 2018, the income tax benefit to continuing operations; loss from continuing operations and loss from discontinued operations, net of tax for the quarter and year ended december 31, 2018 as well as in the current/non-current classification of assets and liabilities held for sale in the prior year balance sheet, as presented in the december 31, 2018 financial statements. additionally, these control deficiencies could result in a misstatement of the aforementioned accounts and disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. accordingly, the company management has determined that these control deficiencies constitute a material weakness. under standards established by the pcaob, a material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. 7 table of contents management is in the process of developing a full remediation plan and has begun enhancing certain controls to include refinements and improvements to the controls over the inputs used in divestiture calculations, as follows: enhancing the level of review of deferred tax balances for each business held for sale; supplementing the review of deferred tax balances by legal entity to ensure proper presentation for financial reporting purposes; and enhancing the held for sale footnote reconciliation process. the material weakness will not be considered remediated until management designs and implements effective controls that operate for a sufficient period of time and management has concluded, through testing, that these controls are effective. the company will monitor the effectiveness of its remediation plan and will refine its remediation plan, as needed. we can give no assurance that the measures we take will remediate the material weakness or that additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future. any failure to remediate the material weakness, or the identification of new material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements that may continue undetected, negatively impact the public perception of the company and our securities and cause us to fail to meet our reporting and financial obligations or incur significant additional costs to remediate the material weakness, each of which could harm our ability to raise capital on favorable terms in the future or otherwise have a negative impact on our financial condition. the company has substantial indebtedness which could materially and adversely affect the company and its financial position, including decreasing its business flexibility, impacting its ratings and increasing its borrowing costs. as of december 31, 2018, the company had $7 billion in outstanding debt. during 2018, the company reduced its debt from $10.6 billion and views paying down debt as a critical goal as the company completes the divestitures contemplated under the accelerated transformation plan. this is because the company substantial indebtedness has had, and could continue to have, important consequences for the company, including: requiring the company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, which reduces the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, future acquisitions, dividends, repurchases of the company common stock and other general corporate purposes; limiting the company flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, adverse business and economic conditions or changes in the company business and the industries in which it operates; placing the company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and limiting, along with the financial and nonfinancial covenants in the company debt documents, its ability to borrow additional funds. in addition, if the company is unable to timely reduce its level of indebtedness, the company will be subject to increased demands on its cash resources, which could increase its total debt-to-capitalization ratios, decrease its interest coverage ratios, lower its credit ratings, result in a breach of covenants or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the company going forward. an increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the company business. while the vast majority of the company debt is fixed, fluctuations in interest rates can increase borrowing costs on the portion that is variable and interest rate increases on this portion of the company debt could have a material adverse effect on the company business. in response to the last global economic recession, extraordinary monetary policy actions of the u.s. federal reserve and other central banking institutions, including the utilization of quantitative easing, were taken to create and maintain a low interest rate environment. however, the u.s. federal reserve raised its benchmark interest rate nine times since december 2015, each time by a quarter of a percentage point. while it is unclear whether the u.s. federal reserve will maintain this pattern in the future, any such change or market expectation of such change may result in significantly higher long-term interest rates. such a transition may be abrupt and may, among other things, reduce the availability and/or increase the costs of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness. governmental investigations or actions by other third parties could have a material adverse effect on management and the company business operations. the company is subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. responding to governmental investigations or actions by regulatory bodies may be both time-consuming and disruptive to the company operations and could divert the attention of management and key personnel from the company business operations. the impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position and results of operations. 8 table of contents the company operating results can be adversely affected by changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services. pricing and availability of raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services for use in the company businesses can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond its control, including general, domestic and international economic conditions, natural disasters, labor costs, production levels, competition, consumer demand, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. specifically, recently enacted and contemplated tariffs on imports into the u.s. and exports to canada, china and the european union could increase costs for the company. the u.s. government has announced its intention to increase some of the china tariffs from 10% to 25% if there is not a breakthrough in negotiations with the china government. the company is working to mitigate the tariff exposure, in part through pricing, productivity and in some cases relocation. any extension of tariffs to additional categories of goods or to additional importers or exporters could have a significant impact on the company. this volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials, energy, transportation and other supplies and services for the company, and may, therefore, have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company success is dependent, in part, on its continued ability to reduce its exposure to increases in those costs through a variety of programs, including periodic purchases, future delivery purchases, long-term contracts, sales price adjustments and certain derivative instruments, while maintaining and improving margins and market share. also, the company relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for its products. these manufacturers are also subject to price volatility and labor cost and other inflationary pressures, which may, in turn, result in an increase in the amount the company pays for sourced products. during periods of rising prices of raw materials, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to pass any portion of such increases on to customers. conversely, when raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent the company has existing inventory, lower margins. as a result, fluctuations in raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. some of the products the company manufactures require particular types of glass, metal, paper, plastic, resin, wax, wood or other materials. supply shortages for a particular type of material can delay production or cause increases in the cost of manufacturing the company products. this could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company operations are dependent upon third-party vendors and suppliers whose failure to perform adequately could disrupt the company business operations. the company currently sources a significant portion of parts and products from third parties. the company ability to select and retain reliable vendors and suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products will impact the company success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. in many cases, the company does not enter into long-term contracts with its primary vendors and suppliers, instead buying parts and products on a purchase order basis. as a result, the company may be subject to unexpected changes in pricing or supply of products. the ability of third-party suppliers to timely deliver finished goods and/or raw materials, and the ability of the company own facilities to timely deliver finished goods, may be affected by events beyond their control, such as inability of shippers to timely deliver merchandise due to work stoppages or slowdowns, or significant weather and health conditions affecting manufacturers and/or shippers. any adverse change in the company relationships with its third-party suppliers, the financial condition of third-party suppliers, the ability of third-party suppliers to manufacture and deliver outsourced parts or products on a timely basis, or the company ability to import products from third-party suppliers or its own facilities could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the financial condition of the company vendors and suppliers may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, such as credit difficulties and the uncertain macroeconomic environment in recent years. in addition, in some instances the company maintains single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. for example, certain businesses in the baby division have a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of their sales and which owns intellectual property rights in respect of many of those products. should any of these single source suppliers fail to manufacture sufficient supply, go out of business or discontinue a particular component, the company may not be able to find alternative vendors and suppliers in a timely manner, if at all. any inability of the company vendors and suppliers to timely deliver quality parts and products or any unanticipated change in supply, quality or pricing of products could be disruptive and costly to the company. 9 table of contents the company cannot assure you that it could quickly or effectively replace any of its suppliers if the need arose, and the company cannot assure you that it could retrieve tooling and molds possessed by any of its third-party suppliers. the company dependence on these few suppliers could also adversely affect its ability to react quickly and effectively to changes in the market for its products. changes in foreign, cultural, political and financial market conditions could impair the company international operations and financial performance. some of the company operations are conducted or products are sold in countries where economic growth has slowed, such as brazil; or where economies have suffered economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation; or where the ability to repatriate funds has been significantly delayed or impaired. current government economic and fiscal policies in these economies, including stimulus measures and currency exchange rates and controls, may not be sustainable and, as a result, the company sales or profits related to those countries may decline. the economies of other foreign countries important to the company operations could also suffer slower economic growth or economic, social and/or political instability or hyperinflation in the future. the company international operations (and particularly its business in emerging markets), including manufacturing and sourcing operations (and the international operations of the company customers), are subject to inherent risks which could adversely affect the company, including, among other things: protectionist policies restricting or impairing the manufacturing, sales or import and export of the company products, including tariffs and countermeasures; new restrictions on access to markets; lack of developed infrastructure; inflation (including hyperinflation) or recession; devaluations or fluctuations in the value of currencies; changes in and the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act, tax laws, accounting standards, trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements, environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws; social, political or economic instability; acts of war and terrorism; natural disasters or other crises; reduced protection of intellectual property rights; increases in duties and taxation; restrictions on transfer of funds and/or exchange of currencies; expropriation of assets or forced relocations of operations; and other adverse changes in policies, including monetary, tax and/or lending policies, encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade by host countries. should any of these risks occur, the company ability to manufacture, source, sell or export its products or repatriate profits could be impaired; the company could experience a loss of sales and profitability from its international operations; and/or the company could experience a substantial impairment or loss of assets, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the company business. the company has foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect the company operating results, financial condition and liquidity. the financial position and results of operations of many of the company international subsidiaries are initially recorded in various foreign currencies and then translated into u.s. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in the company financial statements. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against these foreign currencies ordinarily has a negative impact on the company reported sales, operating margin and operating income (and conversely, the weakening of the u.s. dollar has a positive impact). for the year ended december 31, 2018, foreign currency negatively affected reported sales by approximately $15 million compared to prior year; however, the volatility of foreign exchange rates is unpredictable and could materially adversely affect the company operating results. the company realizes margin impacts from changes in foreign currency because the company costs for produced and sourced products are largely denominated in u.s. dollars, and the company international operations generally sell the company products at prices denominated in local currencies. when local currencies decline in value relative to the u.s. dollar in the regions in which the company sells products whose costs are denominated in u.s. dollars, the company international businesses would need to increase the local currency sales prices of the products and/or reduce costs through productivity or other initiatives in order to maintain the 10 table of contents same level of profitability. the company may not be able to increase the selling prices of its products in its international businesses due to market dynamics, competition or otherwise and may not realize cost reductions through productivity or other initiatives. as a result, gross margins and overall operating results of the company international businesses would be adversely affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and footnote 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. a failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on the company business or reputation. the company relies extensively on information technology (it) systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting business. the various uses of these it systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: ordering and managing materials from suppliers; converting materials to finished products; shipping products to customers; marketing and selling products to consumers; collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and personal data, including data that may be subject to the general data protection regulation of the european union; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting results of operations; hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements; providing data security; and handling other processes necessary to manage the company business. increased it security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, computer viruses, ransomware, other types of malicious code, hacking, phishing and social engineering schemes designed to provide access to the company networks or data, pose a potential risk to the security of the company it systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the company data. the company operations, especially its retail operations, involve the storage and transmission of employees , customers and consumers proprietary information, such as credit card and bank account numbers. the company payment services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards or bank account information, identity theft or merchant fraud. if the it systems, networks or service providers relied upon fail to function properly, or if the company suffers a loss or disclosure of customers and consumers data, business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations, a risk of government enforcement action, litigation and possible liability, and reputational, competitive and/or business harm, which may adversely impact the company results of operations and/or financial condition. as techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, the company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. furthermore, the company relationships with, and access provided to, third parties and their vendors may create difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures or fully mitigating harms after an attack or breach occurs. if an actual or perceived breach of the company security occurs, the public perception of the effectiveness of the company security measures could be harmed and the company could lose customers and consumers, which could adversely affect its business. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company financial results. during the year ended december 31, 2018, the company recorded non-cash impairment charges related to goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles of $8.3 billion in continuing operations and $1.5 billion in discontinued operations. future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the company assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, divestitures of certain businesses, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the company sales and customer base, the unfavorable resolution of litigation, a material adverse change in the company relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the company stock price. the company continues to evaluate the impact of economic and other 11 table of contents developments on the company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, the company may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. given the company impairment charges in 2018, there is minimal difference between the estimated fair values and the carrying values of some of the company reporting units, increasing the possibility of future impairment charges. the company businesses and operations are subject to regulation in the u.s. and abroad. changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations may alter the environment in which the company does business. this includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards, taxation and other regulations. accordingly, the company ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including environmental, human resource, product liability, patent and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal and environmental matters without significant liability could require the company to record significant reserves in excess of amounts accrued to date or pay significant fines during a reporting period, which could materially impact the company results. in addition, new regulations may be enacted in the u.s. or abroad that may require the company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental or other costs on an ongoing basis, significantly restrict the company ability to sell certain products, or incur fines or penalties for noncompliance, any of which could adversely affect the company results of operations. as a u.s.-based multinational company, the company is also subject to tax regulations in the u.s. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. for example, certain income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the u.s. may not be taxed in the u.s. until those earnings are actually repatriated or deemed repatriated. if these or other tax regulations should change, the company financial results could be impacted. the company may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental remediation obligations. in addition to operational standards, environmental laws also impose obligations on various entities to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. accordingly, the company may be liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by the company, is a landfill or other location where it has disposed wastes, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to the company ownership or operation of the property. given the nature of the past industrial operations conducted by the company and others at these properties, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination have been identified, even for those properties where an environmental site assessment has been conducted. the company does not believe that any of the company existing remediation obligations, including at third-party sites where it has been named a potentially responsible party, will have a material adverse effect upon its business, results of operations or financial condition. however, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities that may be material. see environmental matters under footnote 20 of the notes to the company consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2018 for a further discussion of these and other environmental-related matters. the company may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. the company success at implementing its accelerated transformation plan and its future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key personnel. the loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the company business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. the company success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the company can retain its key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. the resolution of the company tax contingencies may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact the company cash flows and results of operations. the company is subject to income tax in the u.s. and numerous jurisdictions outside the u.s. significant estimation and judgment are required in determining the company worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of the company business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the company is regularly under audit by various worldwide tax authorities. although the company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. there can be no assurance that the resolution of any audits or litigation will not have an adverse effect on future operating results. 12 table of contents the company business involves the potential for product recalls, product liability and other claims against it, which could affect its earnings and financial condition. as a manufacturer and distributor of consumer products, the company is subject to the united states consumer products safety act of 1972, as amended by the consumer product safety improvement act of 2008, which empowers the consumer products safety commission to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous, and similar laws under foreign jurisdictions. under certain circumstances, the consumer products safety commission or comparable foreign agency could require the company to repurchase or recall one or more of its products. additionally, other laws and agencies, such as the national highway traffic safety administration, regulate certain consumer products sold by the company in the united states and abroad, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. any repurchase or recall of the company products could be costly and damaging to the company reputation. if the company were required to remove, or it voluntarily removed, its products from the market, the company reputation could be tarnished and the company might have large quantities of finished products that it could not sell. the company also faces exposure to product liability claims in the event that one of its products is alleged to have resulted in property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments or fines or penalties that may result from any governmental investigations, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm the company reputation in the marketplace, adversely impact the value of its end-user brands, or result in an increase in the cost of producing the company products. similar to product liability claims, the company faces exposure to class action law suits related to the performance, safety or advertising of its products. such class action suit could result in substantial monetary judgments, injunctions related to the sale of products and potentially tarnish the company reputation. although the company maintains product liability insurance in amounts that it believes are reasonable, that insurance is, in most cases, subject to large self-insured retentions for which the company is responsible, and the company cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future or that product liability claims will not exceed the amount of insurance coverage. additionally, the company does not maintain product recall insurance and may not have insurance coverage for claims asserted in class action lawsuits. as a result, product recalls or product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company faces potential other types of litigation arising out of alleged defects in its products or otherwise, such as the previously noted class action lawsuits. the company does not maintain insurance against many types of claims involving alleged defects in its products that do not involve personal injury or property damage. the company spends substantial resources ensuring compliance with governmental and other applicable standards. however, compliance with these standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk. as a result, these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on the company business, results of operations and financial condition. the company product liability insurance program is an occurrence-based program based on its current and historical claims experience and the availability and cost of insurance. the company currently either self-insures or administers a high retention insurance program for most product liability risks. historically, product liability awards have rarely exceeded the company individual per occurrence self-insured retention. the company cannot assure you, however, that its future product liability experience will be consistent with its past experience or that claims and awards subject to self-insured retention will not be material. see footnote 20 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2018 for a further discussion of these and other regulatory and litigation-related matters. if the company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect the company market share and results of operations. the company success with its proprietary products depends, in part, on its ability to protect its current and future technologies and products and to defend its intellectual property rights, including its patent and trademark rights. if the company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. the company holds numerous design and utility patents covering a wide variety of products. the company cannot be sure that it will receive patents for any of its patent applications or that any existing or future patents that it receives or licenses will provide competitive advantages for its products. the company also cannot be sure that competitors will not challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of any existing or future patents that the company receives or licenses. in addition, patent rights may not prevent competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to the company products. a reduction in the company credit ratings could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. the company credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, the company cost of capital. the company credit ratings reflect each rating organization opinion of its financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its debt obligations. for example, on february 20, 2019, fitch downgraded the company long-term issuer default rating from bbb- to (bb+) and short-term issuer default rating to b from f3 . the company cannot be sure that any of its current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. a downgrade by moody investor services, inc. ( moody ) or standard &amp; poor ratings services ( standard &amp; poor ), which would reduce the company senior debt below investment-grade, would increase the 13 table of contents company borrowing costs, which would adversely affect the company financial results. specifically, the interest rate payable on notes issued in march 2016 are subject to adjustment from time to time if either moody or standard &amp; poor downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) its rating assigned to the notes, though the interest on these notes will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in ratings by either credit rating agency), if such notes become rated baa1 or higher by moody and bbb+ or higher by standard &amp; poors, in each case with stable or positive outlook. in addition, in the event of a reduction in credit rating, the company would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. if the company short-term ratings were to be lowered, it would limit, or eliminate entirely, the company access to the commercial paper market. the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold the company securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect the company earnings and cash flows in future periods. changes in government regulations could also affect the company pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. the funding obligations for the company pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, the company could be required to make larger contributions. the equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore the company estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. an adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the company required contributions in the future and adversely impact its liquidity. assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the company pension and postretirement benefit plans are determined by the company in consultation with outside actuaries. in the event that the company determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, expected health care costs, or mortality rates, the company future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that the company uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on the company pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. damage to the company reputation could have an adverse effect on the company business . maintaining the company strong reputation with consumers and suppliers worldwide is critical to the company continued success. adverse publicity about the company, its brands, corporate practices, or any other issue that may be associated with the company, whether or not deserved, could jeopardize that reputation. such adverse publicity could come from traditional sources such as government investigations or public or private litigation, but may also arise from negative comments on social media regarding the company or its brands. damage to the company reputation or a loss of consumer confidence in the company brands could adversely affect the company business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as require resources to repair the harm. a deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact the company global business. as of december 31, 2018, the company had approximately 37,000 employees worldwide. approximately 2,400 of the company employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries that have collective arrangements decreed by statute. the company periodically negotiates with certain unions representing company employees and may be subject to work stoppages or may be unable to renew such collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the business of the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk in general, business enterprises can be exposed to market risks including fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices, and that can affect the cost of operating, investing and financing under those conditions. the company believes it has moderate exposure to these risks. the company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on hypothetical changes in rates and prices. the company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable rate debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. as such, the company monitors the interest rate environment and uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk and price risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable interest rates while attempting to minimize interest costs. as of december 31, 2018, approximately $527 million of the company debt carries a variable rate of interest either by nature or through the use of interest rate swaps. the remainder of the debt (approximately $6.5 billion) carries a fixed rate of interest. based upon the company debt structure at december 31, 2018, a hypothetical 1% increase in these interest rates would increase interest expense by approximately $5 million and decrease the fair values of debt by approximately $373 million. while the company transacts business predominantly in u.s. dollars and most of its revenues are collected in u.s. dollars, a substantial portion of the company operating costs are denominated in other currencies, such as the brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, european euro, japanese yen and mexican peso. changes in the relation of these and other currencies to the u.s. dollar will affect company sales and profitability and could result in exchange losses. for 2018, approximately 33% of the company sales were denominated in foreign currencies, the most significant of which were: european euro-approximately 8%; and canadian dollar-approximately 5%. the primary purpose of the company foreign currency hedging activities is to mitigate the foreign currency exchange rate exposure on the cash flows related to forecasted inventory purchases and sales. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material effect on foreign currency gains and losses related to the foreign currency derivatives or the net fair value of the company foreign currency derivatives. the company is exposed to the price risk that the rising cost of commodities has on certain of its raw materials. as such, the company monitors the commodities markets and from time to time the company enters into commodity-based derivatives in order to mitigate the impact that the rising price of these commodities has on the cost of certain of the company raw materials. a hypothetical 10% change in the commodity prices underlying the derivatives would not have a material effect on the related gains and losses included in the company results of operations. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to its derivative financial instruments, all of which are highly rated institutions; however, the company does not anticipate non-performance by such counterparties. the company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 39 table of contents