risk factors 46 risk factors this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding anticipated production volumes, unit net cash costs, sales volumes, ore grades, milling rates, commodity prices, development and capital expenditures, mine production and development plans, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, environmental reclamation and closure cost and plans, environmental liabilities and expenditures, litigation liabilities and expenses, projected debt and cash balances, dividend payments, reserve estimates, political, economic and social conditions in our areas of operations and exploration efforts and results. except for our ongoing obligations under the federal securities laws, we do not intend, and we undertake no obligation, to update or revise any forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from those projected, anticipated or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following: financial risks declines in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows and, therefore, our ability to repay debt. such declines could also cause significant volatility in our financial performance and adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and equity securities. 46 table of contents our earnings and cash flows will be affected significantly by the market prices of copper and, to a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum. the world market prices of these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. many financial analysts who follow the metals markets are predicting that copper prices will decline significantly from their current, historically high levels over the next few years. a decline in the world market price of one or more of these commodities could (1) adversely affect our earnings and cash flows, (2) adversely affect our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and (3) depress the trading prices of our common and preferred stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. in addition, substantially all of our copper concentrate sales contracts and some of our copper cathode sales contracts provide final pricing in a specified future period based on lme or comex prices. accordingly, in times of falling copper prices, our revenues during a quarter are negatively impacted from lower prices received for contracts priced at current market rates and also from a decrease related to the final pricing of provisionally priced contracts entered in prior periods. world copper prices have historically fluctuated widely. during the three years ended december 31, 2007, lme daily closing spot prices ranged from $1.39 to $4.00 per pound for copper. world copper prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the u.s. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world; available supplies of copper from mine production and inventories; sales by holders and producers of copper; demand for industrial products containing copper; investment activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity; the availability and cost of substitute materials; and currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the u.s.dollar. world gold prices have historically fluctuated widely. during the three years ended december 31, 2007, the daily closing prices on the london spot market ranged from $411 to $842 per ounce for gold. world gold prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the u.s. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including china; global or regional political or economic crises; the relative strength of the u.s. dollar and other currencies; expectations with respect to the rate of inflation; interest rates; purchases and sales of gold by central banks and other holders; demand for jewelry containing gold; and investment activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity. molybdenum prices also fluctuate widely. molybdenum demand depends primarily on the global steel industry, which uses the metal as a hardening and corrosion inhibiting agent. approximately 80 percent of molybdenum production is used in this application. the remainder is used in specialty chemical applications such as catalysts, water treatment agents and lubricants. approximately 60 percent of global molybdenum production is a by-product of copper mining, which is relatively insensitive to molybdenum prices. during the three years ended december 31, 2007, the metals week dealer oxide price for molybdenum ranged from $20.50 to $40.00 per pound. molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply; rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel; 47 table of contents the volume of molybdenum produced as a by-product of copper production; inventory levels; currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength of the u.s. dollar; and production costs of u.s. and foreign competitors. the agreements governing our indebtedness contain provisions that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and require us to meet financial tests and other covenants. in addition, we are required to meet financial tests showing our capability to perform required closure and remediation. the failure to comply with such tests and covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. we incurred significant debt to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid to phelps dodge shareholders in our acquisition of phelps dodge. as of december 31, 2007, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was $7.2 billion (excluding unused availability under our revolving credit facilities of $1.4 billion after giving effect to outstanding letters of credit). the agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that restrict our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; engage in transactions with affiliates; create liens on our assets; make payments in respect of, or redeem or acquire, debt or equity issued by us or our subsidiaries, including the payment of dividends on our common stock; make acquisitions of new subsidiaries; make investments in, or loans, to entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; use assets as security in other transactions; sell assets, subject to certain exceptions; merge with or into other companies; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; enter into unrelated businesses; enter into agreements or arrangements that restrict the ability of certain of oursubsidiaries to pay dividends or other distributions; prepay indebtedness; and enter into certain new hedging transactions other than in the ordinary course of business. in addition, our senior credit facilities require that we meet specified financial tests at any time that borrowings or letters of credit are outstanding under our revolving credit facility, including a leverage ratio test and a secured leverage ratio test. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our senior credit facilities or any agreement governing our other indebtedness may result in an event of default. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt agreements. our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our debt instruments that are accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior credit agreements at maturity or in the event of a default, the lenders under our senior credit facilities could terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings outstanding (together with accrued interest and other fees) immediately due and payable and institute foreclosure proceedings against the security. any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. 48 table of contents in addition, most of the financial assurance for our southwestern u.s. mines is provided by financial capability demonstrations or guarantees, both of which require a demonstration that we meet financial tests showing our capability to perform the required closure and remediation or ability to back guarantees provided for our subsidiaries. financial capability demonstrations or guarantees have been submitted for essentially all of the financial assurance for our arizona mines. we maintain a part of our financial assurance using guarantees in new mexico. however, a portion of our financial assurance requirements in new mexico is supplied in another form, such as letters of credit, real property collateral or a trust. our ability to satisfy financial capability demonstrations or utilize third-party guarantees for financial assurance with respect to reclamation obligations may be adversely affected if our credit ratings continue to be rated below investment grade and we are unable to pass the affirmative financial tests. if this w ere to occur, we may be required to provide alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds, real property collateral or a trust. we need significant amounts of cash to service our debt. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. we must generate sufficient amounts of cash to service and repay our debt. our ability to generate cash will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior credit facilities or from the capital markets in amounts sufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund other liquidity needs. if we are not able to obtain such borrowings or generate sufficient cash from operations to service and repay our indebtedness, we will need to refinance our indebtedness to avoid any default. such refinancing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. the inability to service, repay or refinance our indebtedness could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. movements in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could negatively affect our operating results. substantially all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in u.s. dollars; however, some of our costs, and certain of our asset and liability accounts, are denominated in indonesian rupiah, chilean pesos, peruvian nuevos soles, australia dollars, euros and other foreign currencies. as a result, we will be generally less profitable when the u.s. dollar weakens in relation to these foreign currencies. as of december 31, 2007, approximately 18 percent of outstanding debt was subject to variable interest rates. increases in these rates will increase our interest costs and reduce our profits and operating cash flows. from time to time, we may implement currency or interest rate hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange or interest rates. however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange or interest payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. operational risks the volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. in addition, our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with established mining industry practices and standards, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be recovered economically and legally based on currently available data. ore bodies may not conform to standard geological expectations, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. because ore bodies do not contain uniform grades and types of minerals, our metal recovery rates will vary from time to time. there are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from stockpiles. 49 table of contents the quantity of copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. the volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and recovered copper from stockpiles may be less than anticipated. additionally, because the determination of reserves is based partially on historical selling prices, a prospective decrease in such prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable, and therefore reported, ore reserves. these factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report and the volume of minerals that we can sell from period to period. our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long-term viability. our exploration programs may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. our business is subject to operational risks that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business. mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks and factors that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows. these operational risks and factors include the following: unanticipated ground and water conditions; adverse claims to water rights and shortages of water to which we have rights; geological problems, including earthquakes and other natural disasters; metallurgical and other processing problems; the occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; accidents; delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government permits; the results of litigation, including appeals of agency decisions; uncertainty of exploration and development; delays in transportation; interruption of energy supply; labor disputes; inability to hire and retain a sufficient number of skilled employees; inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage; unavailability of experienced labor, equipment and materials; and the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications or expectations. continuation of our mining production is dependent on the availability of a sufficient water supply to support our mining operations. our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. our operations in north and south america are in desert areas where water is scarce and competition amoung users for continuing access to water is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and defeat claims adverse to our current water uses in legal proceedings. in addition, our right to use water at our u.s. operations is subject to applicable state laws. although each operation currently has sufficient water claims to cover its operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. the loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights could require us to curtail or shut down mining production and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. 50 table of contents an interruption of energy supply could adversely affect our mining operations. our mining operations and development projects require significant energy. our principal energy sources are electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. our south american mining operations receive electrical power under long-term contracts with local energy companies. our african development project, tenke fungurume, has entered into long-term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with the state-owned electric utility company serving the katanga province of the drc. a disruption in the transmission of energy, inadequate energy transmission infrastructure, or the termination of any of our energy supply contracts could interrupt our energy supply and adversely affect our operations. worldwide expansion of mining activity has increased costs and created shortages of equipment, supplies and experienced personnel. increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow. in the last few years, there has been a significant increase in mining activity worldwide to meet the demand of an expanding world economy and in response to significant increases in prices of natural resources. the opening of new mines and expansion of existing mines has led to increased demand for, and increased costs and shortages of, equipment, supplies and experienced personnel. these cost increases have significantly increased overall operating and capital budgets of companies like ours, and continuing shortages could affect the timing and feasibility of expansion projects. energy represents a significant portion of our production costs. our principal energy sources are electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. an inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. our production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulfuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, explosives and diluents. the prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable, even in an environment of relatively high copper prices. increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesian operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. our grasberg mining operations are located in steep mountainous terrain in a very remote area in indonesia. because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. on october 9, 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. on december 12, 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. the events caused us to alter our short-term mine sequencing plans, which adversely affected our 2003 and 2004 production. we resumed normal production activities in the second quarter of 2004. on march 23, 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting pt freeport indonesia's mining facilities. regrettably, three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. the material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. as a result of investigations by pt freeport indonesia and the indonesian department of energy and mineral resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. the existing early warning system for potential 51 table of contents slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded. however, no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, our most significant development project, tenke fungurume, is located in a remote area of the drc. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects, including our significant future development of underground mines at the grasberg minerals district, our tenke fungurume project and ongoing projects at our north and south american operations. the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and future prices of the relevant minerals. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. thus it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. these development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. it is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. it is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in invested capital. our tenke fungurume project is located in a remote area of the drc and is subject to additional challenges due to: severely limited infrastructure, including road and rail access; limited and possibly unreliable energy supply; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria. consequently, our tenke fungurume development project may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could increase the cost of the project and adversely affect its ultimate contribution to our operating results. environmental risks our domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and regulatory requirements involves significant costs. our ongoing mining operations and exploration activities, both in the u.s. and elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration, development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs and we expect these costs to continue to increase in the future because of increased demand for remediation services and shortages of equipment, supplies, labor and other factors. the federal clean air act (caa) has had a significant impact, particularly on our domestic smelter and power plants. any change in regulation of the mining industry under the federal resource conservation and recovery act (rcra) could have a significant impact, both on operational compliance and closure costs. in addition, environmental laws and regulations may change in ways that could adversely affect our operations or expansion opportunities. 52 table of contents in addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. phelps dodge and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in mining, milling, and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19 th century and the 20 th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like phelps dodge became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean-up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of phelps dodge in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address these remediation issues. we are also subject to claims for natural resource damages where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have injured natural resources. as of december 31, 2007, we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the u.s. in more than 25 states. mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. our domestic operations are subject to various federal and state mine closure and mined-land reclamation laws. the requirements of these laws vary depending upon the jurisdiction. in general, our domestic mines are required to post increasing amounts of financial assurance as estimated costs increase to ensure the availability of funds to meet future closure and reclamation obligations. our new mexico financial assurance amounts at december 31, 2007, which reflected reductions for work completed through 2006 and agreed upon by the new mexico environment department and mining minerals division, totaled $463 million, up to 70 percent of which is in the form of guarantees issued by phelps dodge on behalf of our operating subsidiaries and the balance is in the form of real property collateral, letters of credit and cash. these amounts may change based on the completion of additional permitting procedures, final agency determinations and the results of administrative appeals, which could result in changes to the closure and reclamation plans and lead to increases in the cost estimates and our related financial assurance obligations. at december 31, 2007, we had accrued closure costs of approximately $152 million for our arizona operations. the amount of financial assurance currently demonstrated for arizona closure and reclamation activities is approximately $147 million. we have also approved mined-land reclamation plans and financial assurance in place for our two colorado mines totaling approximately $81 million. most of the financial assurance provided for our u.s. mines requires that we meet financial tests that demonstrate our capability to perform the required closure and remediation or ability to back guarantees provided for our subsidiaries. financial capability demonstrations or guarantees have been submitted for essentially all of the financial assurance for our arizona mines. we maintain a part of our financial assurance using guarantees in new mexico. however, a portion of our financial assurance requirements in new mexico is supplied in another form, such as letters of credit, real property collateral or a trust. our ability to satisfy financial capability demonstrations or utilize third-party guarantees for financial assurance with respect to reclamation obligations may be adversely affected if our credit ratings continue to be rated below investment grade and we are unable to pass the affirmative financial tests. if this were to occur, we may be required to provide alternative form of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds, real property collateral or a trust. 53 table of contents in recent years, many surety companies have begun to require a significant level of collateral to support surety bonds, and the costs associated with such bonds have increased significantly. as a result, if surety bonds are unavailable at commercially reasonable terms to support our financial assurance obligations, we could be required to post letters of credit, other collateral or cash or cash equivalents directly in support of those obligations. in addition, our international mines are subject to various mine closure and mined-land reclamation laws, and there have recently been significant changes in closure and reclamation programs in both peru and chile that impose more stringent obligations on us for closure and reclamation. regulation of greenhouse effects and climate change may adversely affect our operations and markets. energy is a significant input to our mining and processing operations. our principal energy sources are electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and therefore potentially to climate change. a number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change. the december 1997 kyoto protocol established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that have ratified the protocol. although the kyoto protocol has not been ratified by the u.s., several states have initiated legislative action on climate change. climate change legislation has been introduced in, but not yet passed by the u.s. congress, which could result in increased future energy and compliance costs. from a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to see an increase in costs relating to our assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of regulatory initiatives in the countries in which we operate. these regulatory initiatives may be either voluntary or mandatory and may impact our operations directly or through our suppliers or customers. assessments of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which we operate. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances. these may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. these effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. our operating, inactive and historical domestic mining sites and facilities may be subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations. a number of federal and state agencies are considering new regulations to characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining operations. for example, the epa intends to promulgate rules to regulate technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (tenorm) and their impacts at mining operations. in addition, several states are promulgating groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards for radioactive materials, including uranium. radioactive materials can be associated with copper mineral deposits. consequently, our copper operations may generate, concentrate or release radioactive materials that may subject our operations to new and increased regulation. the impact of such future regulation on our operating, closure, reclamation, and remediation costs is uncertain. our mining operations in indonesia create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our operations in papua involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, 54 table of contents called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the government of indonesia, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are deposited in a controlled area contained within an engineered levee system that will be revegetated. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process in order to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can cause acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which, if not properly managed, can have a negative impact on the environment. certain indonesian governmental officials have from time to time raised issues with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river deposition system for tailings disposal. because our mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. in march 2006, the indonesian ministry of environment announced the preliminary results of its proper (program for pollution control, evaluation and rating) environmental management audit, acknowledging the effectiveness of pt freeport indonesia's environmental management practices in some areas while making several suggestions for improvement in others. we are working with the ministry of environment to address the issues raised as it completes the audit process. international risks our operations outside of the united states are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries. we are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the united states. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, chile and peru. we also have a significant development project in the drc, which is expected to begin production in 2009. accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries. such risks include (1) forced modification of existing contracts, (2) expropriation, (3) changes in a country's laws and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, (4) political instability and civil strife, (5) exchange controls, and (6) the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by these risks. because our grasberg mine in papua, indonesia remains our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by indonesian political, economic and social uncertainties. indonesia has faced political, economic and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. in particular, several separatist groups are opposing indonesian rule over the province of papua, where our grasberg mine is located, and have sought political independence for the province. in response, indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective january 1, 2001. the manner in which the new laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in indonesian politics. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities. 55 table of contents maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a contract of work with the indonesian government. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. grasberg operated at reduced mining and milling rates during a four-day period from april 18, 2007 to april 21, 2007, as a result of peaceful protests by certain workers regarding benefits. the protests ended on april 21 with an agreement on a framework for minimum wages for its workers and grasberg returned to normal operations. the impacts to production were not significant. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt our indonesian operations, or whether similar incidents may occur in other countries that could affect our other operations. if additional protests or other disruptive incidents occur at any of our facilities, they could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time. we do not expect to mine all of our indonesian ore reserves before the initial term of our contract of work in indonesia expires. all of our indonesian proven and probable ore reserves, including the grasberg deposit, are located in block a. the initial term of our contract of work covering these ore reserves expires at the end of 2021. we can extend this term for two successive 10-year periods, subject to the approval of the indonesian government, which under our contract of work cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. our ore reserves reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 (i.e., through the expiration of the two 10-year extensions) and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the current term of our contract of work, and there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve the extensions. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine approximately 37 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2007, representing approximately 43 percent of pt freeport indonesia's share of recoverable copper reserves and approximately 57 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. our contracts of work in indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel. pt freeport indonesia's contract of work and other contracts of work in which we have an interest were entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. our contracts of work can be terminated by the government of indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the government of indonesia prior to may 1998 (i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt freeport indonesia's contract of work, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot assure you that the validity of, or our compliance with, the contracts of work will not be challenged for political or other reasons. pt freeport indonesia's contract of work and our other contracts of work require that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. consequently, if a dispute arises under the contracts of work, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. 56 table of contents indonesian government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our compliance with indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of the contracts of work. in 2006, the government of indonesia created a joint team for periodic evaluation on implementation of the pt-fi contract of work (cow) to conduct an evaluation every five years. the team consists of five working groups, whose members are from relevant ministries or agencies, covering production, state revenues, community development, environmental issues and security issues. we have conducted numerous meetings with these groups. the joint team has indicated that it will issue a report. while we believe that we comply with pt freeport indonesia's contract of work in all material respects, we cannot assure you that the report will support that conclusion. separately, the indonesian house of representatives created a working committee on pt freeport indonesia. members of this group have also visited our operations and held a number of hearings in jakarta. we will continue to work with these groups to respond to their questions about our operations and our compliance with pt freeport indonesia's contract of work. any suspension of required activities under our contracts of work requires the consent of the indonesian government. our contracts of work permit us to suspend certain contractually required activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written request to the indonesian government. these requests are subject to the approval of the indonesian government and are renewable annually. if we do not request a suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our activities under the contract of work or potentially be declared in default. moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other than force majeure and the indonesian government has not approved such continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under the contract of work. we suspended our field exploration activities outside of block a in recent years because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest areas and an indonesian forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open-pit mining in forest preservation areas. in 2001, we requested and received from the government of indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under the contracts of work in all areas outside of block a. recent indonesian legislation permits open-pit mining in pt freeport indonesia's block b area, subject to certain requirements. following an assessment of these requirements and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in certain prospective contract of work areas outside of block a. our tenke fungurume development project is located in the drc, and our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in the drc. our most significant development project, tenke fungurume, is located in the drc, a nation that since 1960 has undergone outbreaks of political violence, changes in national leadership and financial crisis. these factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy towards foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. our ability to continue development is currently subject to an ongoing review of all mining contracts by the ministry of mines in the drc (ministry), the outcome of which cannot be predicted. we received notification on february 20, 2008 that the ministry wishes to renegotiate several material provisions of our mining concessions. we believe that the terms of the concessions are fair and that they were negotiated transparently and are legally binding. however, we cannot predict whether the government of the drc will respect our contract rights. other political, economic and social risks that are outside of our control and could adversely affect our business include: political risks associated with the limited tenure of the newly elected government; cancellation or renegotiation of mining contracts by the government; royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims; security risks due to the remote location and violence in the northeastern provinces of thedrc; risk of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property; and risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. 57 table of contents consequently, our tenke fungurume development project may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. terrorist attacks throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. on august 31, 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an ambush by a group of unidentified assailants on the road near tembagapura, the mining town where the majority of pt freeport indonesia's personnel reside. the assailants shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers from our school in tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to pt freeport indonesia. the u.s. fbi investigated the incident, which resulted in the u.s. indictment of an alleged operational commander of the free papua movement/national freedom force. in january 2006, indonesian police, accompanied by fbi agents, arrested the alleged operational commander and 11 other papuans. in november 2006, verdicts and sentencing were announced for seven of those accused in the august 2002 shooting, including a life sentence for the confessed leader of the attack. on october 12, 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the indonesian province of bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. on august 5, 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the jw marriott hotel in jakarta, indonesia. on september 9, 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the australian embassy in jakarta. on october 1, 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in bali. the same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. in november 2005, indonesian police raided a house in east java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but pt freeport indonesia's corporate office in jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the australian embassy. in addition to the bali, jw marriott hotel and australian embassy bombings, there have been anti-american demonstrations in certain sections of indonesia reportedly led by radical islamic activists. other risks the impact of purchase accounting in connection with our acquisition of phelps dodge in march 2007 will adversely affect our reported earnings. purchase accounting requires us to allocate the price paid for the acquisition of phelps dodge to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values on the acquisition date of march 19, 2007. this allocation resulted in significant increases in the carrying values of certain acquired assets, including, based on preliminary estimates, increases of approximately $2.8 billion in metal inventories and stockpiles and approximately $16.1 billion in property, plant and equipment. although these increases in metal inventories and stockpiles and property, plant and equipment do not impact our cash flows, the increases in metal inventories and stockpiles had a significant impact to our reported earnings in 2007, and the increases in property, plant and equipment had a significant impact on our reported earnings in 2007, and will continue to have an impact on reported earnings. a decline in copper or molybdenum prices from those used to estimate the fair values of the acquired assets could result in impairment to the carrying values of metal and stockpile inventories and property, plant and equipment. these charges would reduce reported earnings, but would have no effect on cash flows. in addition, at december 31, 2007, the carrying value of goodwill associated with the acquisition of phelps dodge totaled $6.1 billion. absent the occurrence of events or circumstances in an interim period that may indicate impairment, we are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. if we 58 table of contents conclude that the goodwill associated with the transaction is impaired, the amount of the impairment would be charged to our reported earnings, but would have no effect on cash flows. we depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. our success depends in part on our ability to retain senior management and other key employees. competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. in addition, senior management and key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty or difficulty associated with the successful integration of the business and operations as formerly conducted by phelps dodge, or a desire not to remain with us. accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain senior management and key employees to the same extent that we have been able to do so in the past. our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors and preferred shareholders. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval andto designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferredstock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advanced notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or forproposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; and limit who may call stockholder meetings. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders.risk factors 40 risk factors. competition we are one of the world's largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. with respect to copper, which generated approximately 76 percent of our mining revenues in 2008, the top 10 producers comprise approximately 55 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. we currently rank second among those producers at approximately 10 percent of total worldwide estimated mined copper production. our competitive position is based on the quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. we have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. the metals markets are cyclical and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to manage our costs. labor matters at december 31, 2008, we employed approximately 29,300 people. additionally, there are approximately 10,300 contractor employees working at our grasberg minerals district and approximately 400 contractor employees at atlantic copper. employees represented by unions are listed below, with the approximate number of employees represented and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements. 26 table of contents number of union- number of represented location unions employees expiration date pt freeport indonesia indonesia 1 5,650 october 2009 tenke fungurume drc 2 2,525 may 2010 cerro verde peru 1 1,014 august 2011 candelaria chile 2 463 october 2009 el abra chile 2 566 july 2012 chino new mexico 1 231 november 2009 atlantic copper spain 2 179 december 2007 a stowmarket united kingdom 1 36 may 2011 bayway new jersey 1 53 april 2010 rotterdam the netherlands 2 57 march 2011 aurex chile 1 32 february 2010 a. the contract has been provisionally extended and is currently being renegotiated. fm services company (fm services), a wholly owned subsidiary of fcx, furnishes certain executive, administrative, financial, accounting, legal, tax and similar services to us. as of december 31, 2008, fm services had 184 employees. fm services employees also provide these services to two other publicly traded companies. environmental and reclamation matters the costs of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. for information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, please see item 1a. risk factors - environmental risks; item 3. legal proceedings; note 1 summary of significant accounting policies - environmental expenditures and asset retirement obligations; and note 15 contingencies - environmental and asset retirement obligations. community and human rights we have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate that are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects basic human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. we continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs basic education programs public health programs, including malaria control agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs cultural preservation programs water and sewage treatment projects clean water access charitable donations in december 2000, we endorsed the joint u.s. state department-british foreign office voluntary principles on human rights and security ( voluntary principles ). several major natural resources companies and international human rights organizations participated in developing the voluntary principles and have endorsed them. we participated in developing these principles and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. we believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. nevertheless, social and political instability in the area 27 table of contents may adversely impact our mining operations. see item 1a. risk factors. south america. cerro verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. during 2006, as a result of discussions with local mayors in the arequipa region, cerro verde agreed to contribute to the design and construction of domestic water and sewage treatment plants for the benefit of the region. these facilities are being designed in a modular fashion so that initial installations can be readily expanded in the future. we have funded approximately 150 million peruvian nuevo soles (approximately $49 million) as of december 31, 2008 to a designated bank account to be used for financing cerro verde's share of the construction costs of these facilities. during 2006, the peruvian government announced that all mining companies operating in peru will make annual contributions to local development funds for a five-year period when copper prices exceed certain levels that are adjusted annually. the contribution is equal to 3.75 percent of after-tax profits, of which 2.75 percent is contributed to a local mining fund and 1.00 percent to a regional mining fund. cerro verde's contributions totaled $28 million in 2008 and $49 million in 2007. indonesia. in 1996, pt freeport indonesia established the freeport partnership fund for community development (formerly the freeport fund for irian jaya development), through which pt freeport indonesia has made available funding and technical assistance to support the economic, health, education and social development of the area. pt freeport indonesia has committed through 2011 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the partnership fund. our share of contributions to the partnership fund totaled $34 million in 2008, $48 million in 2007 and $44 million in 2006. our joint venture partner, rio tinto, also contributes to this fund and, including their share, the contributions totaled $35 million in 2008, $53 million in 2007 and $48 million in 2006. the amungme and kamoro community development organization ( lembaga pembangunan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro or lpmak) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the partnership fund. lpmak is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local amungme and kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of ptfi on each board. the amungme and kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. security matters in indonesia . consistent with our cow in indonesia and the requirement to protect our employees and property, we have taken appropriate steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, pt freeport indonesia maintains its own internal security department, which performs functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring the shipment of company goods through the airport and terminal, assisting in traffic control and aiding rescue operations. pt freeport indonesia's civilian security employees (numbering approximately 750) are unarmed and perform duties consistent with their internal security role. pt freeport indonesia's share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled approximately $22 million for 2008, $17 million for 2007 and $14 million for 2006. the security department has received human rights training and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human rights policy. pt freeport indonesia, and all businesses and residents of indonesia, rely on the government of indonesia for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the government of indonesia as one of indonesia's vital national assets. this designation results in the police and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. the government of indonesia is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. from the outset of pt freeport indonesia's operations, the government has looked to pt freeport indonesia to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in papua. pt freeport indonesia's financial support for the indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol pt freeport indonesia's roads and secure its operating area. in addition, provision of such support and oversight is consistent with pt freeport indonesia's obligations under the cow, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights. 28 table of contents pt freeport indonesia's share of support costs for the government-provided security, currently involving approximately 1,850 indonesian government security personnel located in the general area of our operations, was $8 million for 2008, $9 million for 2007 and $9 million for 2006. this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. pt freeport indonesia's capital costs for associated infrastructure was less than $1 million for each of the three years ended december 31, 2008. as reported in january 2006, we have received and responded to requests from u.s. governmental authorities related to pt freeport indonesia's support of indonesian security institutions. we are cooperating fully with these requests. africa. tenke fungurume has committed to assist the communities living within its concession in the katanga province of the drc. initiatives that have commenced over the past two years include the building of two schools and the remodeling of a third, development of over 30 community water wells, construction of roads, implementation of a malaria control program, agricultural support programs to local farmers, and support for the development of local small and medium enterprises. additionally, we have committed to contribute a portion of net sales revenue from production to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services, such as those pertaining to health, education and economic development. this fund will be a platform to work jointly with the local government and community to further assist them to fulfill their local development plans, meet basic community needs and promote good governance. similar to our operations in indonesia, tenke fungurume is required to engage government security institutions to assist with security matters at its concession area. in this regard, tenke fungurume provides food, housing, monetary allowances and logistical support as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession area. 29 table of contents ore reserves recoverable proven and probable reserves summarized below and detailed on the following pages have been calculated as of december 31, 2008, in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities and exchange act of 1934. proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. the term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the term proven reserves means reserves for which (1) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (2) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (3) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. the term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. our reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees, and a majority of these estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves were determined using long-term average prices of $1.60 per pound for copper, $550 per ounce for gold, $8.00 per pound for molybdenum, $12.00 per ounce for silver and $10.00 per pound for cobalt. the london spot metal prices for the past three years averaged $3.15 per pound for copper and $724 per ounce for gold, and molybdenum prices for the past three years averaged approximately $28 per pound. recoverable proven and probable reserves a at december 31, 2008 copper gold molybdenum silver cobalt (billion pounds) (million ounces) (billion pounds) (million ounces) (billion pounds) north america 28.3 0.2 2.08 56.7 - south america 32.2 1.3 0.40 77.5 - indonesia 35.6 38.5 - 132.4 - africa 5.9 - - - 0.7 consolidated basis b 102.0 40.0 2.48 266.6 0.7 net equity interest c 82.4 36.2 2.30 223.9 0.4 a. recoverable proven and probable reserves are estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. recoverable reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. recoverable reserves include estimated recoverable copper totaling 2.8 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 1.1 billion pounds in mill stockpiles, including our joint venture partner's interest in the morenci mine. b. consolidated basis reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. c. net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for minority interest ownership. 30 table of contents recoverable proven and probable reserves estimated at december 31, 2008 proven reserves probable reserves average ore grade average ore grade processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt million copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % metric tons % g/t % g/t % north america morenci mill 181 0.55 - 0.023 - - 4 0.61 - 0.023 - - crushed leach 371 0.58 - - - - 19 0.55 - - - - rom leach 2,133 0.20 - - - - 105 0.23 - - - - sierrita mill 1,325 0.26 - d 0.029 1.49 - 142 0.24 - d 0.024 1.35 - rom leach 4 0.19 - - - - 2 0.16 - - - - bagdad mill 591 0.36 - d 0.021 1.79 - 175 0.31 - d 0.019 1.51 - rom leach 142 0.18 - - - - 143 0.12 - - - - safford crushed leach 239 0.46 - - - - 211 0.29 - - - - tyrone rom leach 289 0.30 - - - - 45 0.23 - - - - henderson mill 141 - - 0.176 - - 8 - - 0.176 - - chino mill 43 0.63 0.05 0.016 0.76 - 4 0.58 0.04 0.017 0.71 - rom leach 83 0.48 - - - - 13 0.34 - - - - miami rom leach 74 0.44 - - - - 17 0.35 - - - - climax a mill 63 - - 0.201 - - 102 - - 0.142 - - cobre a rom leach 71 0.40 - - - - 2 0.23 - - - - 5,750 0.29 - d 0.016 0.53 992 0.23 - d 0.023 0.46 - south america cerro verde mill 486 0.47 - 0.018 2.83 - 2,249 0.34 - 0.013 2.05 - crushed leach 110 0.56 - - - - 81 0.48 - - - - rom leach 39 0.28 - - - - 58 0.35 - - - - el abra crushed leach 477 0.56 - - - - 149 0.52 - - - - rom leach 291 0.32 - - - - 203 0.33 - - - - candelaria mill 368 0.55 0.11 - 1.97 - 23 0.54 0.11 - 1.91 - ojos del salado mill 5 1.23 0.30 - 2.95 - 3 0.98 0.24 - 2.34 - 1,776 0.49 0.02 0.005 1.19 - 2,766 0.36 - d 0.010 1.69 - indonesia grasberg open pit mill 213 0.99 1.29 - 2.55 - 171 0.95 1.03 - 2.56 - deep ore zone b mill 97 0.67 0.66 - 3.41 - 185 0.59 0.68 - 2.75 - grasberg block cave a mill 288 1.21 1.16 - 3.65 - 719 0.94 0.66 - 3.37 - kucing liar a mill 156 1.32 1.15 - 7.51 - 285 1.20 1.06 - 6.57 - deep mill level zone a,c mill 59 1.00 0.78 - 4.94 - 435 0.88 0.74 - 4.40 - big gossan a mill 9 2.50 1.30 - 16.72 - 47 2.18 1.16 - 14.16 - 822 1.11 1.11 - 4.30 - 1,842 0.97 0.79 - 4.25 - africa tenke fungurume a agitation leach 59 2.62 - - - 0.374 60 2.67 - - - 0.317 total 8,407 0.43 0.11 0.012 1.05 0.003 5,660 0.56 0.26 0.009 2.29 0.003 a. undeveloped reserves requiring significant capital investment to bring into production. b. in 2007, we combined the deep ore zone and the erstberg ore zone reserves, which we now refer to as the deep ore zone. c. in 2007, we combined the mill level zone and the deep mill level zone reserves, which we now refer to as the deep mill level zone. d. grade not shown because of rounding. the reserve table above and the tables on pages 32 to 37 and 39 utilize the following abbreviations: g/t grams per metric ton moly molybdenum rom run of mine 31 table of contents recoverable proven and probable reserves estimated at december 31, 2008 average ore grade recoveries a proven and probable processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % % % north america morenci mill 185 0.55 - 0.023 - - 77.3 - 29.8 - - crushed leach 390 0.58 - - - - 76.3 - - - - rom leach 2,238 0.20 - - - - 41.2 - - - - sierrita mill 1,467 0.25 - b 0.029 1.48 - 82.0 60.0 83.4 50.0 - rom leach 6 0.18 - - - - 51.0 - - - - bagdad mill 766 0.35 - b 0.021 1.73 - 84.6 60.0 72.3 50.0 - rom leach 285 0.15 - - - - 26.1 - - - - safford crushed leach 450 0.38 - - - - 65.8 - - - - tyrone rom leach 334 0.29 - - - - 58.7 - - - - henderson mill 149 - - 0.176 - - - - 86.7 - - chino mill 47 0.62 0.04 0.016 0.75 - 78.3 60.0 38.2 50.0 - rom leach 96 0.47 - - - - 67.4 - - - - miami rom leach 91 0.43 - - - - 63.0 - - - - climax mill 165 - - 0.165 - - - - 88.6 - - cobre rom leach 73 0.39 - - - - 65.4 - - - - 6,742 south america cerro verde mill 2,735 0.37 - 0.014 2.19 - 86.0 - 47.1 28.2 - crushed leach 191 0.53 - - - - 79.3 - - - - rom leach 97 0.32 - - - - 44.7 - - - - el abra crushed leach 626 0.55 - - - - 54.8 - - - - rom leach 494 0.32 - - - - 28.0 - - - - candelaria mill 391 0.55 0.11 - 1.97 - 90.9 79.0 - 76.4 - ojos del salado mill 8 1.12 0.27 - 2.68 - 90.3 67.1 - 58.5 - 4,542 indonesia grasberg open pit mill 384 0.97 1.17 - 2.55 - 85.8 83.2 - 44.4 - deep ore zone mill 282 0.62 0.67 - 2.98 - 84.2 75.9 - 57.0 - grasberg block cave mill 1,007 1.02 0.81 - 3.45 - 85.6 67.7 - 60.6 - kucing liar mill 441 1.24 1.09 - 6.90 - 85.3 45.6 - 38.4 - deep mill level zone mill 494 0.89 0.75 - 4.47 - 86.0 76.7 - 62.7 - big gossan mill 56 2.23 1.18 - 14.57 - 92.2 67.8 - 64.3 - 2,664 africa tenke fungurume agitation leach 119 2.64 - - - 0.35 84.8 - - - 76.5 total 14,067 a. recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. grade not shown because of rounding. 32 table of contents recoverable proven and probable reserves estimated at december 31, 2008 recoverable reserves copper gold moly silver cobalt fcx's processing billion million billion million billion interest method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. lbs. north america morenci 85% mill 1.7 - 0.03 - - crushed leach 3.8 - - - - rom leach 4.0 - - - - sierrita 100% mill 6.8 0.1 0.77 34.9 - rom leach - - - - - bagdad 100% mill 5.0 0.1 0.25 21.3 - rom leach 0.3 - - - - safford 100% crushed leach 2.5 - - - - tyrone 100% rom leach 1.3 - - - - henderson 100% mill - - 0.50 - - chino 100% mill 0.5 - 0.01 0.5 - rom leach 0.7 - - - - miami 100% rom leach 0.5 - - - - climax 100% mill - - 0.53 - - cobre 100% rom leach 0.4 - - - - 27.5 0.2 2.09 56.7 - recoverable metal in stockpiles 2.3 - - - - 100% operations 29.8 0.2 2.09 56.7 - consolidated basis a 28.3 0.2 2.08 56.7 - net equity interest b 28.3 0.2 2.08 56.7 - south america cerro verde 53.56% mill 18.9 - 0.39 54.4 - crushed leach 1.7 - - - - rom leach 0.3 - - - - el abra 51% crushed leach 4.2 - - - - rom leach 1.0 - - - - candelaria 80% mill 4.3 1.1 - 18.6 - ojos del salado 80% mill 0.2 - - 0.3 - 30.6 1.1 0.39 73.3 - recoverable metal in stockpiles 1.6 0.2 0.01 4.2 - 100% operations 32.2 1.3 0.40 77.5 - consolidated basis a 32.2 1.3 0.40 77.5 - net equity interest b 18.4 1.0 0.22 47.2 - indonesia grasberg open pit (c) mill 7.1 12.0 - 14.0 - deep ore zone (c) mill 3.3 4.6 - 15.4 - grasberg block cave (c) mill 19.4 17.7 - 67.7 - kucing liar (c) mill 10.3 7.1 - 37.6 - deep mill level zone (c) mill 8.3 9.1 - 44.5 - big gossan (c) mill 2.5 1.4 - 16.7 - 50.9 51.9 - 195.9 - recoverable metal in stockpiles - - - - - 100% operations 50.9 51.9 - 195.9 - consolidated basis a 35.6 38.5 - 132.4 - net equity interest b 32.3 35.0 - 120.0 - africa tenke fungurume 57.75% agitation leach 5.9 - - - 0.7 100% operations 5.9 - - - 0.7 consolidated basis a 5.9 - - - 0.7 net equity interest b 3.4 - - - 0.4 total 100% operations 118.8 53.4 2.49 330.1 0.7 total consolidated basis a 102.0 40.0 2.48 266.6 0.7 total net equity interest b 82.4 36.2 2.30 223.9 0.4 a. consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. b. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for minority interest ownership. c. our joint venture agreement with rio tinto provides that pt freeport indonesia will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of december 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow. 33 table of contents in defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. the objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. we use a break-even cutoff grade to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. the break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. we value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single break-even cutoff grade. copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. the calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. the table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of december 31, 2008: moly cutoff grade copper equivalent cutoff grade (percent) (percent) crushed or rom mill agitation leach leach mill north america morenci 0.27 0.23 0.10 n/a sierrita 0.24 n/a 0.07 n/a bagdad 0.24 n/a 0.08 n/a safford n/a 0.12 n/a n/a tyrone n/a n/a 0.05 n/a henderson n/a n/a n/a 0.12 chino 0.28 n/a 0.10 n/a miami n/a n/a 0.04 n/a climax n/a n/a n/a 0.06 cobre n/a n/a 0.10 n/a south america cerro verde 0.14 0.24 0.18 n/a el abra n/a 0.20 0.07 n/a candelaria 0.21 n/a n/a n/a ojos del salado 0.81 n/a n/a n/a indonesia grasberg open pit 0.53 n/a n/a n/a deep ore zone 0.59 n/a n/a n/a grasberg block cave 0.51 n/a n/a n/a kucing liar 0.73 n/a n/a n/a deep mill level zone 0.55 n/a n/a n/a big gossan 1.37 n/a n/a n/a africa tenke fungurume n/a 1.50 n/a n/a 34 table of contents drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. the following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: average spacing in meters proven probable mining unit mill leach mill leach north america morenci open pit 86 86 122 122 sierrita open pit 69 33 115 75 bagdad open pit 86 86 122 122 safford open pit n/a 61 n/a 122 tyrone open pit n/a 86 n/a 86 henderson block cave 38 n/a 85 n/a chino open pit 43 86 86 122 miami open pit n/a 61 n/a 91 climax open pit 61 n/a 122 n/a cobre open pit n/a 61 n/a 91 south america cerro verde open pit 50 50 100 100 el abra open pit n/a 75 n/a 120 candelaria open pit 35 n/a 70 n/a ojos del salado sublevel stoping 25 n/a 50 n/a indonesia grasberg open pit 36 n/a 92 n/a deep ore zone block cave 20 n/a 51 n/a grasberg block cave 47 n/a 80 n/a kucing liar block cave 39 n/a 97 n/a deep mill level zone block cave 21 n/a 89 n/a big gossan open stope 13 n/a 42 n/a africa tenke fungurume open pit n/a 50 n/a 100 35 table of contents the following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing the december 31, 2008, proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production of each ore body to begin and end. the chart also shows the term of pt freeport indonesia's cow. production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production, and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. the ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. in addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. 36 table of contents mill and leach stockpiles mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower-grade ores that have been extracted from the ore body and are available for copper recovery. for mill stockpiles, recovery is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. for leach stockpiles, recovery is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be extracted into copper concentrate almost immediately. expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored continuously, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of december 31, 2008: recoverable copper in stockpiles recoverable millions of average recovery copper metric tons grade (%) rate (%) (billion pounds) mill stockpiles cerro verde 56 0.49 81.7 0.5 candelaria 88 0.41 82.6 0.6 subtotal 144 0.44 82.3 1.1 leach stockpiles morenci 4,422 0.25 1.9 0.5 sierrita 647 0.15 13.6 0.3 bagdad 385 0.28 3.8 0.1 safford 47 0.38 33.9 0.1 tyrone 944 0.28 2.0 0.1 chino 1,623 0.25 12.6 1.2 miami 433 0.39 1.9 0.1 cerro verde 336 0.54 3.2 0.1 el abra 252 0.33 18.0 0.3 subtotal 9,089 0.27 5.2 2.8 total 100% basis 3.9 consolidated basis a 3.8 net equity interest b 3.3 a. consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint venture partner's interest in the morenci mine in north america. b. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for minority interest ownership. 37 table of contents mineralized material we hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. however, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit may not qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $2.00 per pound of copper, $750 per ounce of gold and $12.00 per pound of molybdenum. at these prices mineralized material totals 12.0 billion metric tons on a consolidated basis. using a copper price of $1.60 per pound, estimated mineralized material on a consolidated basis would approximate 3.9 billion metric tons with an average copper grade of 0.56 percent. 38 table of contents mineralized material estimated at december 31, 2008 milling material leaching material total mineralized material million million million fcx's metric copper gold moly metric copper metric copper gold moly interest tons % g/t % tons % tons % g/t % north america morenci 85% 304 0.38 - - 1,950 0.22 2,254 0.24 - - sierrita 100% 2,154 0.21 - 0.022 24 0.16 2,178 0.20 - 0.022 bagdad 100% 460 0.33 - 0.019 131 0.10 591 0.28 - 0.014 safford 100% 219 0.57 - - 38 0.27 257 0.53 - - tyrone 100% - - - - 320 0.32 320 0.32 - - henderson 100% 65 - - 0.126 - - 65 - - 0.126 chino 100% 411 0.48 - 0.013 104 0.16 515 0.41 - 0.010 miami 100% - - - - 52 0.45 52 0.45 - - climax 100% 448 - - 0.170 - - 448 - - 0.170 cobre 100% 3 0.94 - - - - 3 0.94 - - ajo 100% 639 0.36 - - - - 639 0.36 - - cochise/bisbee 100% - - - - 301 0.44 301 0.44 - - lone star 100% - - - - 767 0.44 767 0.44 - - sanchez 100% - - - - 209 0.29 209 0.29 - - tohono 100% 247 0.68 - - 280 0.67 527 0.68 - - south america cerro verde 53.56% 191 0.29 - 0.012 20 0.35 211 0.29 - 0.011 el abra 51% 802 0.40 - - 371 0.32 1,173 0.37 - - candelaria a 80% 144 0.52 0.12 - - - 144 0.52 0.12 - indonesia grasberg district b 54.38% f 2,601 0.58 0.52 - - - 2,601 0.58 0.52 - africa tenke fungurume c 57.75% 62 3.72 - - 26 4.16 88 3.85 - - total 100% basis 8,750 4,593 13,343 consolidated basis d 7,663 4,301 11,964 net equity interest e 6,981 4,099 11,080 a. candelaria stated tonnage also includes 1.7 grams of silver per metric ton. b. grasberg stated tonnage also includes 3.4 grams of silver per metric ton. c. tenke fungurume stated tonnage also includes 0.29 percent cobalt. d. consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized material after reduction for our joint venture partners' interest in the morenci mine in north america and at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. e. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis mineralized material further reduced for minority interest ownership. f. fcx's interest in the grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership, further reduced by minority interest ownership. 39 table of contents item 1a. risk factors this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding anticipated production volumes, unit net cash costs, sales volumes, ore grades, milling rates, commodity prices, development and capital expenditures, mine production and development plans, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, environmental reclamation and closure cost and plans, environmental liabilities and expenditures, litigation liabilities and expenses, dividend payments, reserve estimates, political, economic and social conditions in our areas of operations and exploration efforts and results. except for our ongoing obligations under the federal securities laws, we do not intend, and we undertake no obligation, to update or revise any forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from those projected, anticipated or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following. financial risks extended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and/or molybdenum could continue to adversely affect our earnings and cash flows and, if sustained, could eventually adversely affect our ability to repay debt. fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and can adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and equity securities. our earnings and cash flows are affected significantly by the market prices of copper and, to a lesser extent, gold and molybdenum. the world market prices of these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. copper prices have declined significantly from their recent historically high levels. exchange inventories have increased significantly since the first half of 2008. after averaging $3.61 per pound for the first nine months of 2008, london metal exchange (lme) spot copper prices declined to a four-year low of $1.26 per pound in december 2008 and the lme spot copper price closed at $1.41 per pound on january 30, 2009. the price of molybdenum averaging approximately $33 per pound for the first nine months of 2008, declining to a four-year low of $8.75 per pound in november 2008 and was $9.30 per pound on january 30, 2009. gold prices averaged approximately $872 per ounce for 2008 and closed at $920 per ounce on january 30, 2009. an extended decline in the market price of these commodities could (1) adversely affect our earnings and cash flows, (2) adversely affect our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and (3) depress the trading prices of our common and preferred stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. in addition, substantially all of our copper concentrate sales and some of our copper cathode sales are provisionally priced at the time of shipment, subject to final pricing at a specified future date based on lme or new york merchantile exchange (comex) prices on that date. accordingly, in times of falling copper prices, our revenues during a quarter are negatively affected by lower prices received for sales priced at current market rates and also from a decrease related to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales in prior periods. if the market prices for the metals we produce fall below our production costs for a sustained period of time, we may have to further revise our operating plans, including further curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. we may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses. world copper prices have historically fluctuated widely. during the three years ended december 31, 2008, lme daily closing spot prices ranged from $1.26 to $4.08 per pound for copper. world copper prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the u.s. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world; available supplies of copper from mine production and inventories; sales by holders and producers of copper; demand for industrial products containing copper; 40 table of contents investment activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity; the availability and cost of substitute materials; and currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the u.s. dollar. world gold prices have historically fluctuated widely. during the three years ended december 31, 2008, the daily closing prices on the london spot market ranged from $525 to $1,011 per ounce for gold. world gold prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the u.s. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including china; global or regional political or economic crises; the relative strength of the u.s. dollar and other currencies; expectations with respect to the rate of inflation; interest rates; purchases and sales of gold by central banks and other holders; demand for jewelry containing gold; and investment activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity. molybdenum prices also fluctuate widely. molybdenum demand depends primarily on the global steel industry, which uses the metal as a hardening and corrosion inhibiting agent. approximately 80 percent of molybdenum production is used in this application. the remainder is used in specialty chemical applications such as catalysts, water treatment agents and lubricants. approximately 50 percent of global molybdenum production is a by-product of copper mining, which is relatively insensitive to molybdenum prices. decreased demand for molybdenum during the fourth quarter of 2008 resulted in a sudden and sharp decline in molybdenum prices. during the three years ended december 31, 2008, the metals week dealer oxide weekly average price for molybdenum ranged from $8.75 to $33.88 per pound. molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply; rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel; the volume of molybdenum produced as a by-product of copper production; inventory levels; currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the u.s. dollar; and production costs of u.s. and foreign competitors. the agreements governing our indebtedness require us to meet certain financial tests and other covenants and as a result may limit our flexibility in the operation of our business and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. we incurred significant debt to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid to acquire phelps dodge. as of december 31, 2008, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was $7.4 billion. the agreements governing our indebtedness restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our ability to: 41 table of contents incur additional indebtedness; engage in transactions with affiliates; create liens on our assets; make payments in respect of equity issued by us or our subsidiaries, including the payment of dividends on our common stock; make investments in, or loans, to entities that we do not control, including joint ventures; sell assets; merge with or into other companies; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; enter into unrelated businesses; enter into agreements or arrangements that restrict the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other distributions; prepay indebtedness; and enter into hedging transactions other than in the ordinary course of business. in addition, our senior credit facilities require that we meet certain financial tests at any time that borrowings are outstanding under our revolving credit facility, including a leverage ratio test (total debt to consolidated ebitda, as those terms are defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters cannot exceed 5.0 to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter) and a secured leverage ratio test (total secured debt to consolidated ebitda, as those terms are defined in the facility, for the preceding four quarters cannot exceed 3.0 to 1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter). during periods in which copper, gold or molybdenum prices or production volumes, or other conditions reflect the adverse impact of cyclical market trends or other factors, we may not be able to comply with the applicable financial covenants. our senior credit facilities, the $6.0 billion 8.25%, 8.375%, and floating rate senior notes and the 6 % senior notes contain covenants that limit our ability to make certain payments. these restrictions vary among the instruments, but generally limit our ability to pay certain dividends on common and preferred stock, repurchase or redeem common and preferred equity, prepay subordinated debt and make certain investments. at december 31, 2008, the most restrictive of these covenants allowed for such payments up to a limit that exceeded $5 billion. our obligations under our senior credit facilities are (i) guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and (ii) secured by a pledge of (a) 100 percent of the equity in substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries and (b) 66.5 percent of the equity in substantially all of our first tier foreign subsidiaries. any failure to comply with the restrictions of our senior credit facilities, senior notes or any agreement governing our other indebtedness, after giving effect to any applicable grace period, may result in an event of default. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt agreements. our assets and cash flow would not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our debt instruments that are accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior credit agreements at maturity or in the event of a default, the lenders under our senior credit facilities could terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings outstanding (together with accrued interest and other fees) immediately due and payable and institute foreclosure proceedings against the security. any such actions could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 42 table of contents under u.s. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions taken under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act (cercla) or equivalent state regulations . the failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. we are required by u.s. federal and state laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. these laws are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. the laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance. as of december 31, 2008, our financial assurance obligations associated with closure and reclamation costs totaled approximately $715 million, of which approximately $425 million was in the form of parent company guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. our ability to continue to provide financial assurance in the form of parent guarantees and financial capability demonstrations in new mexico and arizona depends on our ability to meet financial tests. certain of the ratios in these tests are significantly more rigorous for companies that do not have an investment grade rating from a state-approved ratings service. we are currently rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's and fitch, but are not rated investment grade by moody's. if we fail to maintain our investment grade rating, we would be subject to these alternate tests, and as a result, the regulatory agencies may require us to provide alternative forms of financial assurance to fully satisfy our financial assurance obligations, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. depending on our financial condition and market conditions, these other forms of financial assurance may be difficult or costly to provide. issuance of letters of credit under our credit facilities would reduce our available liquidity. failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines. as of december 31, 2008, we have limited financial assurance obligations associated with cercla-related actions, although epa and certain states are currently considering increasing the use of financial assurance requirements. for additional information, see the risk factor mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations below. we need significant amounts of cash to service our debt. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. we must generate sufficient amounts of cash to service and repay our debt. our ability to generate cash will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior credit facilities or from the capital markets in amounts sufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund other liquidity needs. if we are not able to obtain such borrowings or generate sufficient cash from operations to service and repay our indebtedness, we will need to refinance our indebtedness to avoid any default. such refinancing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. the inability to service, repay or refinance our indebtedness could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. our indebtedness, as well as the current global recession, disruption in financial markets and lower copper and/or molybdenum prices generally, could, among other things, impede our access to capital or increase our cost of capital, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our working capital and other capital requirements. as of december 31, 2008, the outstanding principal amount of our debt was approximately $7.4 billion. the widely reported domestic and global recession, the associated low copper and molybdenum prices, and the unprecedented levels of disruption and continuing illiquidity in the credit markets have had an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, and if sustained or worsened such adverse effects could continue or worsen. disruptions in the credit and financial markets have adversely affected financial institutions, inhibited lending and limited access to capital and credit for many companies, including ours. these disruptions have made it difficult for us to obtain, or increase our cost of obtaining, capital and financing for our operations and have limited our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate. if these conditions persist or worsen, they could, among other things, make it difficult for us to finance our working capital requirements and service our existing debt. if future financing is not available to us when required, as a result of limited access to the credit markets or 43 table of contents otherwise, or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest needed capital for our development and exploration programs, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. movements in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could negatively affect our operating results. substantially all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in u.s. dollars; however, some of our costs, and certain of our asset and liability accounts, are denominated in indonesian rupiah, chilean pesos, peruvian nuevos soles, australian dollars, euros and other foreign currencies. as a result, we will be generally less profitable when the u.s. dollar weakens in relation to these foreign currencies. as of december 31, 2008, approximately 20 percent of our outstanding debt was subject to variable interest rates. increases in these rates will increase our interest costs and reduce our profits and operating cash flows. from time to time, we may implement currency or interest rate hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange or interest rates. however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange or interest payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. operational risks the volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with established mining industry practices and standards, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be recovered economically and legally based on currently available data. estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are subject to considerable uncertainty. ore bodies may not conform to standard geological expectations, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. because ore bodies do not contain uniform grades and types of minerals, our metal recovery rates will vary from time to time. additionally, because the determination of reserves is based partially on estimates of future selling prices, a sustained decrease in such prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. these factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. there are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from stockpiles. the quantity of copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. the volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and recovered copper from stockpiles may be less than anticipated. we must continually replace reserves depleted by production. our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long-term viability. produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. exploration is highly speculative in nature. our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. as a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. there is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. our business is subject to operational risks that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business. mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks and factors that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows. these operational risks and factors 44 table of contents include the following: unanticipated ground and water conditions; adverse claims to water rights and shortages of water to which we have rights; adjacent land ownership that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; geological problems, including earthquakes and other natural disasters; metallurgical and other processing problems; the occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; accidents; delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government permits; the results of litigation, including appeals of agency decisions; uncertainty of exploration and development; delays in transportation; interruption of energy supply; labor disputes; inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage; and the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications or expectations. continuation of our mining production is dependent on the availability of a sufficient water supply to support our mining operations. our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. our operations in north and south america are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and defeat claims adverse to our current water uses in legal proceedings. at our u.s. operations, under state law, our water rights give us only the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. in arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which for over 30 years the state of arizona has been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims in two of the state's largest river systems that include three of our operating mines (morenci, sierrita and safford) and which may also affect our arizona mine at bagdad. groundwater is not subject to adjudication in arizona, but is subject to the doctrine of reasonable use, which requires balancing the utility of the use against the gravity of the harm to others who have rights in the same aquifer; however, wells may be subject to adjudication to the extent they are found to produce or affect surface water. in colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority of administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the climax mine. our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated in new mexico. in south america, water for our mining operations at candelaria and ojos del salado is drawn from the copiapo river aquifer. because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, ongoing studies are addressing the adequacy of this water supply for our mining operations at these sites and a project to pump effluent from a nearby sewerage treatment plant as an alternate water source is being explored. at el abra, regulatory agencies continue to evaluate the potential hydrologic and ecologic effects from our groundwater pumping at the salar de 45 table of contents ascot n, with a pending agency determination on the adequacy of our mitigation management plan for this area. although each operation currently has sufficient water rights and claims to cover its operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. the loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights could require us to curtail or shut down mining production and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. additionally, we have not yet secured adequate water rights to support all of our potential expansion projects, and our inability to secure those rights could prevent us from pursuing some of those opportunities. an interruption of energy supply could adversely affect our mining operations. our mining operations and development projects require significant amounts of energy. our principal energy sources are electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. our south america mining operations receive electrical power under long-term contracts with local energy companies. our africa development project, tenke fungurume, has entered into long-term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with the state-owned electric utility company serving the katanga province of the democratic republic of congo. a disruption in the transmission of energy, inadequate energy transmission infrastructure, or the termination of any of our energy supply contracts could interrupt our energy supply and adversely affect our operations. increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow. energy represents a significant portion of our production costs. an inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. our production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulfuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, explosives and diluents. the prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. although our cash costs increased significantly in 2008, principally for energy and sulfuric acid, these costs began to decrease in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the recent sharp declines in prices of energy, steel and sulfuric acid. future increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. our grasberg mining operations are located in steep mountainous terrain in a very remote area in indonesia. because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. on october 9, 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. on december 12, 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. the events caused us to alter our short-term mine sequencing plans, which adversely affected our 2003 and 2004 production. we resumed normal production activities in the second quarter of 2004. on march 23, 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting pt freeport indonesia's mining facilities. regrettably, three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. the material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. as a result of investigations by pt freeport indonesia and the indonesian department of energy and mineral resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. the existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded. 46 table of contents on september 10, 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our grasberg open pit. there were no injuries or property damage. the event caused a delay in our access to the high-grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future periods. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, our most significant development project, tenke fungurume, is located in a remote area of the democratic republic of congo. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects, including our significant future development of underground mines at the grasberg minerals district and our tenke fungurume project. the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and future prices of the relevant minerals. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. thus it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. these development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. it is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. it is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in invested capital. our tenke fungurume project is located in a remote area of the democratic republic of congo and is subject to additional challenges due to: severely limited infrastructure, including road and rail access; limited and possibly unreliable energy supply; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria. consequently, our tenke fungurume development project may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could increase the cost of the project and adversely affect its ultimate contribution to our operating results. environmental risks our domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and regulatory requirements involves significant costs. our ongoing mining operations and exploration activities, both in the u.s. and elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration, development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs and we expect these costs to continue to increase in the future because of increased regulatory enforcement, increased demand for remediation services and shortages of equipment, supplies, labor and other factors. the federal clean air act has had a significant impact, particularly on our domestic smelter and power plants. any change in waste management regulation of the mining industry under the federal resource conservation and recovery act could have a significant impact, both on operational compliance and closure costs. in addition, environmental laws and regulations may change in ways that could adversely affect our operations or expansion opportunities. 47 table of contents in addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. phelps dodge corporation, now named freeport-mcmoran corporation, and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in mining, milling, and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like phelps dodge became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean-up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of phelps dodge in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address these remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. as of december 31, 2008, we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the u.s. in approximately 25 states. we incurred aggregate environmental capital expenditure and other environmental costs, including joint venture partners' share, totaling $468 million in 2008, $320 million in 2007 and $63 million in 2006. refer to note 15 contingencies for more information on our environmental liabilities. an adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us. as described in our securities and exchange commission (sec) filings, we are a defendant in numerous and in some cases significant litigation involving environmental cleanup costs, alleged environmental toxic torts and interpretations of environmental regulations. an adverse ruling in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. our domestic operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined-land reclamation obligations. these requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. the laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. in general, our domestic mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. in addition, our international mines are subject to various mine closure and mined-land reclamation laws, and there have recently been significant changes in closure and reclamation programs in both peru and chile that impose more stringent obligations on us for closure and reclamation. updated closure plans for our three chilean operations were submitted to the government in february 2009. our asset retirement obligations as of december 31, 2008, determined as required by statement of financial accounting standards no. 143, asset retirement obligations, totaled approximately $712 million (including approximately $42 million for the current portion). at december 31, 2008, we had accrued reclamation and closure costs of $372 million for our new mexico operations, $164 million for our arizona operations and $83 million for pt freeport indonesia. asset retirement obligation cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in regulations, engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, mine plans, cost of inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. 48 table of contents regulation of greenhouse gas emissions effects and climate change issues may adversely affect our operations and markets. energy is a significant input to our mining and processing operations. our principal energy sources are electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and therefore potentially to climate change. a number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change. the december 1997 kyoto protocol established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that have ratified the protocol. although the kyoto protocol has not been ratified by the u.s., several states have initiated legislative action on climate change. climate change legislation has been introduced in, but not yet passed by the u.s. congress. many believe that federal climate change legislation is very likely to become effective in the next few years, which will result in increased future energy and compliance costs. from a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to see an increase in costs relating to our assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. these regulatory initiatives will be either voluntary or mandatory and may impact our operations directly or through our suppliers or customers. assessments of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which we operate. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances. these may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. these effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. our operating, inactive and historical domestic mining sites and facilities may be subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations. a number of federal and state agencies are considering new regulations to characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining operations. for example, the epa could promulgate rules to regulate technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (tenorm) and their impacts at mining operations. in addition, several states are promulgating groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards for radioactive materials, including uranium. radioactive materials can be associated with copper mineral deposits, including both our current and discontinued operations. consequently, our copper operations may generate, concentrate or release radioactive materials that may subject our operations to new and increased regulation. the impact of such future regulation on our operating, closure, reclamation, and remediation costs is uncertain. our mining operations in indonesia create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our operations in papua involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the government of indonesia, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are deposited in a controlled area contained within an engineered levee system that will be revegetated. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process in order to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can cause acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which, if not properly managed, can have a negative impact on the environment. certain indonesian governmental officials have from time to time raised issues with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river deposition system for tailings disposal. because our mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous 49 table of contents terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. in connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the indonesian government, we committed to perform a one-time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. we completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the indonesian government in december 2002. we developed the risk assessment study with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the indonesian government, academia and non-governmental organizations. the risks that we identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents. in 2005, pt freeport indonesia agreed to participate in the government of indonesia's proper (program for pollution control, evaluation and rating) program. in march 2006, the indonesian ministry of environment announced the preliminary results of its proper environmental management audit, acknowledging the effectiveness of pt freeport indonesia's environmental management practices in some areas while making several suggestions for improvement in others. international risks our operations outside of the u.s. are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries. we are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, chile and peru. we also have a significant development project in the democratic republic of congo, which is expected to begin production in 2009. accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries. such risks include (1) forced modification of existing contracts, (2) expropriation, (3) changes in a country's laws and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, (4) political instability and civil strife, (5) exchange controls, and (6) the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by these risks. in december 2008, we were notified by peruvian tax authorities of their intent to assess mining royalties related to the minerals processed by the cerro verde concentrator. the amount claimed to be due through december 2007 is approximately $33 million. we believe our royalty obligations with respect to all minerals extracted at cerro verde are subject to our existing stability agreement, regardless of the processing method applied after extraction, and believe that cerro verde owes no royalties with respect to minerals processed through our concentrator. we intend to work cooperatively with the authorities in peru to resolve this matter. because our grasberg minerals district in papua, indonesia remains our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by indonesian political, economic and social uncertainties. indonesia has faced political, economic and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. in particular, several separatist groups are opposing indonesian rule over the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. in response, indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective january 1, 2001. the manner in which the new laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in indonesian politics. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities. 50 table of contents maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a contract of work with the indonesian government. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. in october 2004, susilo bambang yudhoyono was elected as president of indonesia in the nation's first direct presidential election. indonesia has a presidential election scheduled for july 2009. while we intend to continue to maintain positive working relationships with the indonesian government, we cannot predict the impact that the 2009 elections will have on our relationships. grasberg operated at reduced mining and milling rates during a four-day period from april 18, 2007 to april 21, 2007, as a result of peaceful protests by certain workers regarding benefits. the protests ended on april 21 with an agreement on a framework for minimum wages for its workers and grasberg returned to normal operations. the impacts to production were not significant. illegal miners have continued to operate along the river designated to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in pt freeport indonesia's government-approved tailings management area. the illegal miners who have trespassed from time to time in the area of our facilities have clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. in 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the grasberg mine and mill in protest, and pt freeport indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt our indonesian operations, or whether similar incidents may occur in other countries that could affect our other operations. if additional protests or other disruptive incidents occur at any of our facilities, they could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time. we do not expect to mine all of our indonesian ore reserves before the initial term of our contract of work in indonesia expires. all of our indonesian proven and probable ore reserves, including the grasberg deposit, are located in block a. the initial term of our contract of work covering these ore reserves expires at the end of 2021. we can extend this term for two successive 10-year periods, subject to the approval of the indonesian government, which under our contract of work cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. our ore reserves reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 (i.e., through the expiration of the two 10-year extensions) and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the current term of our contract of work, and there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve the extensions. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine approximately 35 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2008, representing approximately 42 percent of pt freeport indonesia's share of recoverable copper reserves and approximately 56 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. our contracts of work in indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel. pt freeport indonesia's contract of work and other contracts of work in which we have an interest were entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. our contracts of work can be terminated by the government of indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the government of indonesia prior to may 1998 (i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt freeport indonesia's contract of work, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot assure you that the validity of, or our compliance with, the contracts of work will not be challenged for political or other reasons. pt freeport indonesia's contract of work and our other contracts of work require that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. consequently, if a dispute arises under the contracts of work, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. 51 table of contents indonesian government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our compliance with indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of the contracts of work. in 2006, the government of indonesia created a joint team for periodic evaluation on implementation of the pt-fi contract of work (cow) to conduct an evaluation every five years. the team consists of five working groups, whose members are from relevant ministries or agencies, covering production, state revenues, community development, environmental issues and security issues. we have conducted numerous meetings with these groups. the joint team has indicated that it will issue a report. while we believe that we comply with pt freeport indonesia's contract of work in all material respects, we cannot assure you that the report will support that conclusion. separately, the indonesian house of representatives created a working committee on pt freeport indonesia. members of this group have also visited our operations and held a number of hearings in jakarta. we will continue to work with these groups to respond to their questions about our operations and our compliance with pt freeport indonesia's contract of work. any suspension of required activities under our contracts of work requires the consent of the indonesian government. our contracts of work permits us to suspend certain contractually required activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written request to the indonesian government. these requests are subject to the approval of the indonesian government and are renewable annually. if we do not request a suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our activities under the contract of work or potentially be declared in default. moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other than force majeure and the indonesian government has not approved such continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under the contract of work. we suspended our field exploration activities outside of block a in recent years because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest areas and an indonesian forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open-pit mining in forest preservation areas. in 2001, we requested and received from the government of indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under the contracts of work in all areas outside of block a. recent indonesian legislation permits open-pit mining in pt freeport indonesia's block b area, subject to certain requirements. following an assessment of these requirements and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in certain prospective contract of work areas outside of block a. our tenke fungurume development project is located in the democratic republic of congo, and our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in the democratic republic of congo. our most significant development project, tenke fungurume, is located in the democratic republic of congo, a nation that since 1960 has undergone outbreaks of political violence, changes in national leadership and financial crisis. these factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy towards foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. our ability to continue development is currently subject to an ongoing review of all mining contracts by the ministry of mines (ministry) in the democratic republic of congo, the outcome of which cannot be predicted. we received notification on february 20, 2008 that the ministry wishes to renegotiate several material provisions of our mining concessions. we believe that the terms of the concessions are fair and that they were negotiated transparently and are legally binding. however, we cannot predict whether the government of the democratic republic of congo will respect our contract rights. other political, economic and social risks that are outside of our control and could adversely affect our business include: political risks associated with the limited tenure of the newly elected government; cancellation or renegotiation of mining contracts by the government; royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims; security risks due to the remote location and violence in the northeastern provinces of the democratic republic of congo; 52 table of contents risk of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property; and risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. consequently, our tenke fungurume development project may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. terrorist attacks throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. on august 31, 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an ambush by a group of unidentified assailants on the road near tembagapura, the mining town where the majority of pt freeport indonesia's personnel reside. the assailants shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers from our school in tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to pt freeport indonesia. the u.s. federal bureau of investigation (fbi) investigated the incident, which resulted in the u.s. indictment of an alleged operational commander of the free papua movement/national freedom force. in january 2006, indonesian police, accompanied by fbi agents, arrested the alleged operational commander and 11 other papuans. in november 2006, verdicts and sentencing were announced for seven of those accused in the august 2002 shooting, including a life sentence for the confessed leader of the attack. on october 12, 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the indonesian province of bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. on august 5, 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the jw marriott hotel in jakarta, indonesia. on september 9, 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the australian embassy in jakarta. on october 1, 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in bali. the same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. in november 2005, indonesian police raided a house in east java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but pt freeport indonesia's corporate office in jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the australian embassy. in addition to the bali, jw marriott hotel and australian embassy bombings, there have been anti-american demonstrations in certain sections of indonesia reportedly led by radical islamic activists. no assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents will not occur. if there were to be additional violence, it could materially and adversely affect our business in ways that we cannot predict at this time. other risks if market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long-lived assets may be further impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded significant charges to reduce the carrying values of inventories and long-lived assets, and to eliminate goodwill. further declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, may cause us to record additional lower of cost or market inventory adjustments and may also require us to further write down the carrying value of long-lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and shareholders' equity, but would have no effect on cash flows. unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to the litigation described in our sec filings and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. if any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation, is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 53 table of contents we depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our future projects. a loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected. our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. in addition, cash at our international operations is subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors and preferred stockholders. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or for proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 41risk factors 40risk factors 40 "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings, for further discussion. bagdad our wholly owned bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in yavapai county in west-central arizona. it is approximately 60 miles west of prescott and 100 miles northwest of phoenix. the property can be reached by arizona highway 96, which ends at the town of bagdad. the closest railroad is at hillside, arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on arizona highway 96. the open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings. the bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite. the bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, an sx/ew plant that can produce up to 25 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching and a pressure leach plant to process molybdenum concentrates. the available mining fleet consists of 30 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 40 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving over 200,000 metric tons of material per day. bagdad's production totaled 194 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 , 203 million pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010 , and 225 million pounds of copper and 6 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009 . 7 table of contents bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 310 meters above sea level. the bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,743 acres, comprising 21,143 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and 600 acres of unpatented mining claims. bagdad receives electrical power from arizona public service company. although we believe the bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may set legal precedents, which could adversely affect our water rights at bagdad and at our other properties in arizona. refer to item 3. legal proceedings, for information concerning the status of these proceedings. safford our wholly owned safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in graham county, arizona, approximately eight miles north of the town of safford and 170 miles east of phoenix. the site is accessible by paved county road off u.s. highway 70. the safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite. the property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathodes. the operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day of crushed ore. the crushed ore is delivered to a single leach pad by a series of overland and portable conveyors. leach solutions feed an sx/ew facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. the available mining fleet consists of 20 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of approximately 225,000 metric tons of material per day. during 2011, we completed construction of a sulphur burner at safford, which is providing a more cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in sx/ew operations and lower transportation costs. safford's copper production totaled 151 million pounds in 2011 , 143 million pounds in 2010 and 184 million pounds in 2009 . safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. the safford operation encompasses approximately 24,957 acres, comprising 20,994 acres of patented lands, 3,932 acres of unpatented lands and 31 acres of land held by federal permit. the safford operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility. although we believe the safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the safford operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings, for further discussion. 8 table of contents sierrita our wholly owned sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in pima county, arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of tucson and seven miles west of the town of green valley and interstate highway 19. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. the sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates. sierrita also produces copper from a rom oxide-leaching system. cathode copper is plated at the twin buttes ew facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. in 2004, a copper sulfate crystal plant began production, which has the capacity to produce 40 million pounds of copper sulfate per year. the sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. the molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. the available mining fleet consists of 25 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day. sierrita's production totaled 177 million pounds of copper and 23 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 , 147 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010 , and 170 million pounds of copper and 19 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009 . sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. the sierrita operation, including the adjacent twin buttes site (refer to "development projects and exploration" for further discussion), encompasses approximately 27,000 acres, comprising 13,282 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 11,694 acres of unpatented mining claims and 2,024 acres of leased lands. sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the tucson electric power company. although we believe the sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the sierrita operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings, for further discussion. 9 table of contents miami our wholly owned miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in gila county, arizona, approximately 90 miles east of phoenix and six miles west of the city of globe on u.s. highway 60. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the miami mine is developed on a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. since about 1915, the miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. current operations include leaching with copper recovered (from solution) by the sx/ew process. the design capacity of the sx/ew plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. the available mining fleet consists of 24 227-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 3 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of approximately 155,000 metric tons of material per day. miami's copper production totaled 66 million pounds in 2011 , 18 million pounds in 2010 and 16 million pounds in 2009 . miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom will have an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. the miami operation encompasses approximately 9,058 acres, comprising 8,725 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 333 acres of unpatented mining claims. miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the salt river project and natural gas through long-term contracts with el paso natural gas as the transporter. although we believe the miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the miami operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings, for further discussion. 10 table of contents tyrone and chino tyrone our wholly owned tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. it is located in southwestern new mexico in grant county, approximately 10 miles south of silver city, new mexico, along state highway 90. the site is accessible by paved road and rail. the tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocola. copper processing facilities consist of a sx/ew operation with a maximum capacity of 153 million pounds of copper cathodes per year. the available mining fleet consists of 20 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 47 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 136,000 metric tons of material per day. tyrone's copper production totaled 76 million pounds in 2011 , 82 million pounds in 2010 and 86 million pounds in 2009 . tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. the tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,755 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and 16,445 acres of unpatented mining claims. tyrone receives electrical power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe the tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. chino our wholly owned chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in southwestern new mexico in grant county, approximately 15 miles east of the town of silver city off of state highway 180. the mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. chino has been in operation since 1910. the chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. there is leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and millable primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and azurite. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides. the chino operation consists of a 39,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, and a 150 million pound-per-year sx/ew plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by rom leaching. the available mining fleet consists of 34 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 42 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 218,000 metric tons of material per day. during 2011, we restarted mining and milling activities at the chino mine, which were suspended in late 2008. chino's copper production totaled 69 million pounds in 2011 and is expected to increase to approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year by 2014. chino's copper production totaled 34 million pounds in 2010 and 36 million pounds in 2009 . 11 table of contents chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,500 meters above sea level. the chino operation encompasses approximately 118,623 acres comprising 113,221 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and 5,402 acres of unpatented mining claims. chino receives power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations. henderson our wholly owned henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of denver, colorado, off u.s. highway 40. nearby communities include the towns of empire, georgetown and idaho springs. the henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from colorado state highway 9. the henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the continental divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. the tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill. the henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 40 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our fort madison, iowa, processing facility. the available underground mining equipment fleet consists of 13 nine-metric ton load-haul-dump (lhd) units and six 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles. henderson's molybdenum production totaled 38 million pounds in 2011 , 40 million pounds in 2010 and 27 million pounds in 2009 . the henderson mine is located in a mountain region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. the main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,878 acres, comprising 11,843 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and a 35-acre easement with the u.s. forest service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor. henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with anadarko energy services company, with xcel energy as the transporter. we believe the henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. 12 table of contents other north america mines in addition to the currently operating mines described above, we have four non-operating copper mines: ajo, bisbee and tohono in arizona, and cobre in new mexico; and the climax molybdenum mine in colorado. our four non-operating copper mines have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require significant capital investment to return them to operating status. construction activities at the climax molybdenum mine are substantially complete, and we expect to commence production during 2012. production from the climax molybdenum mine is expected to ramp up to a rate of 20 million pounds of molybdenum per year during 2013 and, depending on market conditions, may be increased to 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year. we intend to operate our climax and henderson molybdenum mines in a flexible manner to meet market requirements. south america at our operations in south america, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. the claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements. cerro verde we have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in cerro verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by smm cerro verde netherlands b.v. (21.0 percent), compa ia de minas buenaventura s.a.a. (19.3 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the lima stock exchange (6.14 percent). cerro verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of arequipa, peru. the site is accessible by paved highway. approximately one-third of cerro verde's copper cathode production is sold locally and the remaining copper cathodes and concentrate production are transported approximately 70 miles by truck and rail to the port of matarani for shipment to international markets. the cerro verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper pitch. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. cerro verde's current operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 120,000 metric tons of ore per day concentrator and sx/ew leaching facilities. leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a rom leach system. this leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. the available fleet consists of 32 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 21 to 53 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of approximately 308,000 metric tons of material per day. 13 table of contents cerro verde's production totaled 647 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 , 668 million pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010 , and 662 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009 . refer to development projects and exploration for further discussion of the large-scale concentrator expansion project at cerro verde. cerro verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 2,900 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 2,000 meters above sea level. cerro verde has a mining concession covering approximately 157,007 acres plus 24 acres of owned property and 79 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area. cerro verde receives electrical power under long-term contracts with kallpa generaci n sa and empresa de generaci n el ctrica de arequipa. water for our cerro verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. cerro verde's participation in the pillones reservoir project has secured water rights that we believe will be sufficient to support cerro verde's current operations. in 2011, cerro verde reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar) and other local institutions to allow it to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant, should cerro verde proceed with plans for a large-scale concentrator expansion. once cerro verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement its existing water supplies to support the potential concentrator expansion. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. el abra we own a 51 percent interest in el abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise corporaci n nacional del cobre de chile (codelco). el abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of calama in chile's el loa province, region ii. the site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. the el abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. the predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. there is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization as chalcocite. the oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. there are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite. the el abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and an sx/ew facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 115,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized rom leaching operation. the available fleet consists of 34 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 26 to 41 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 223,000 metric tons of material per day. 14 table of contents during 2011, we commenced production from el abra's newly commissioned stacking and leaching facilities to begin transitioning from production of oxide to sulfide ores. production from the sulfide ore will approximate 300 million pounds of copper per year, replacing the depleting oxide copper production. el abra's copper production totaled 274 million pounds in 2011 , 320 million pounds in 2010 and 358 million pounds in 2009 . el abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,410 meters above sea level. el abra controls a total of 151,272 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. in addition, el abra has acquired land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the salar de ascot n. el abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with electroandina. water for our el abra processing operations comes from pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. we believe el abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. candelaria and ojos del salado candelaria we have an 80 percent ownership interest in candelaria, with the remaining 20 percent interest owned by affiliates of sumitomo corporation. candelaria's open-pit copper mine has been in operation since 1993 and the underground mine has been in operation since 2005. the candelaria copper mining complex is located approximately 12 miles south of copiap in northern chile's atacama province, region iii. the site is accessible by two maintained dirt roads, one coming through the tierra amarilla community and the other off of route 5 of the international pan-american highway. copper concentrates are transported by truck to the punta padrones port facility located in caldera, approximately 50 miles northwest of the mine. the candelaria mine is an iron oxide, copper and gold deposit. primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite. the candelaria operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a 6,000 metric ton-per-day underground copper mine, which is mined by sublevel stoping, feeding a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator. the available fleet consists of 46 225-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 28 to 43 cubic meters, which are capable of moving 250,000 metric tons of material per day. candelaria's production totaled 327 million pounds of copper and 85 thousand ounces of gold in 2011 , 300 million pounds of copper and 76 thousand ounces of gold in 2010 , and 296 million pounds of copper and 74 thousand ounces of gold in 2009 . candelaria is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 675 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to 15 table of contents be 32 meters below sea level. the candelaria property encompasses approximately 13,390 acres, including approximately 125 acres for the port facility in caldera. the remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface is not owned but controlled by us, which is consistent with chilean law. candelaria receives electrical power through long-term contracts with empresa el ctrica guacolda s.a., a local energy company. candelaria's water supply comes from well fields in the area of tierra amarilla and copiap that draw water from the copiap river aquifer. because of rapid depletion of that aquifer in recent years, candelaria is expanding its sources of water supply. during 2010, we completed construction of a pipeline to bring water from a nearby water treatment facility. we have also completed engineering and began construction for a desalination plant near the pacific ocean that will supply all of candelaria's longer term water needs. the plant is expected to be completed in early 2013. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. ojos del salado we have an 80 percent ownership interest in ojos del salado, with the remaining 20 percent interest owned by affiliates of sumitomo corporation. the ojos del salado operation began commercial production in 1929 and consists of two underground copper mines (santos and alcaparrosa) and a 3,800 metric ton-per-day concentrator. the operation is located approximately 10 miles east of copiap in northern chile's atacama province, region iii, and is accessible by paved highway. the ojos del salado mines are iron oxide and copper and gold deposits. primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite. the ojos del salado operation has a capacity of 3,800 metric tons per day of ore from the santos underground mine and 4,000 metric tons of ore per day from the alcaparrosa underground mine. the ore from both mines is mined by sublevel stoping since both the ore and enclosing rocks are competent. the broken ore is removed from the stopes using scoops and loaded into an available fleet of 26 28-metric ton trucks, which transport the ore to the surface. the ore from the santos mine is hauled directly to the ojos del salado mill for processing, and the ore from the alcaparrosa mine is reloaded into six 54-metric ton trucks and hauled seven miles to the candelaria mill for processing. the ojos del salado concentrator has the capacity to produce over 30 million pounds of copper and 9,000 ounces of gold per year. tailings from the ojos del salado mill are pumped to the candelaria tailings facility for final deposition. the candelaria facility has sufficient capacity for the remaining ojos del salado tailings. ojos del salado's production totaled 58 million pounds of copper and 16 thousand ounces of gold in 2011 , 66 million pounds of copper and 17 thousand ounces of gold in 2010 , and 74 million pounds of copper and 18 thousand ounces of gold in 2009 . ojos del salado is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest underground level is at an elevation of 500 meters above sea level, with the lowest underground level at 150 meters above sea level. the ojos del salado mineral rights encompass approximately 15,815 acres, which includes approximately 6,784 acres of owned land in and around the ojos del salado underground mines and plant site. the remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface is not owned but controlled by us, which is consistent with chilean law. ojos del salado receives electrical power through long-term contracts with empresa el ctrica guacolda s.a. ojos del salado's water supply comes from well fields in the area of tierra amarilla and copiap that draw water from the copiap river aquifer. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. 16 table of contents indonesia ownership . pt freeport indonesia is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the republic of indonesia and incorporated in delaware. we directly own 81.28 percent of pt freeport indonesia and 9.36 percent indirectly through our wholly owned subsidiary, pt indocopper investama; the government of indonesia owns the remaining 9.36 percent. we have established certain unincorporated joint ventures with rio tinto plc (rio tinto). under the joint venture arrangements, rio tinto has a 40 percent interest in pt freeport indonesia's contract of work (cow) and the option to participate in 40 percent of any other future exploration projects in papua, indonesia. refer to note 2 for further discussion. contract of work . pt freeport indonesia conducts its current exploration and mining operations in indonesia through a cow with the government of indonesia. the cow governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 foreign capital investment law, which expresses indonesia's foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. specifically, the cow provides that the government of indonesia will not nationalize or expropriate pt freeport indonesia's mining operations. any disputes regarding the provisions of the cow are subject to international arbitration. we have experienced no disputes requiring arbitration during the more than 40 years we have operated in indonesia. pt freeport indonesia's original cow was entered into in 1967 and was replaced by a new cow in 1991. the initial term of the current cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. the cow allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre block a area, which is where all of pt freeport indonesia's proven and probable mineral reserves and current mining operations are located. under the cow, pt freeport indonesia also conducts exploration activities in the block b area. we expect the block b area to be reduced to approximately 413,000 acres once the department of energy and mineral resources (demr) formally accepts pt freeport indonesia's relinquishment of approximately 89,000 acres. as further discussed in note 14 , pt freeport indonesia pays copper royalties under its cow, and has agreed to pay additional royalties to the government of indonesia that are not required under its cow. the additional royalties provide further support to the local governments and to the people of the indonesian province of papua. pt freeport indonesia's share of the combined royalties totaled $137 million in 2011 , $156 million in 2010 and $147 million in 2009 . pt irja eastern minerals (eastern minerals), of which we own 100 percent, conducts exploration in papua through a joint venture agreement under a separate cow. we expect eastern minerals' exploration area to be reduced to approximately 283,000 acres once the demr formally accepts eastern minerals' relinquishment of approximately 17 table of contents 164,000 acres. under a joint venture agreement through pt nabire bakti mining (ptnbm), we conduct exploration activities under a separate cow in an area in three parcels contiguous to pt freeport indonesia's block b and one of eastern minerals' blocks. we expect ptnbm's exploration area to be reduced to approximately 301,000 acres once the demr formally accepts ptnbm's relinquishment of approximately 192,000 acres. in 2009, indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to pt freeport indonesia, eastern minerals and ptnbm. in 2011 and 2010, the government of indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2009 mining law and certain provisions that address existing contracts of work. the laws and regulations provide that contracts of work will continue to be honored until their expiration. however, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to existing contracts of work and may seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work, even though our cow provides for two 10-year extension periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. in february 2012, a new regulation was adopted that would require mining companies in indonesia to process all minerals domestically and possibly ban export of concentrates and other unrefined minerals. pt freeport indonesia's existing cow includes specific provisions that define pt freeport indonesia's rights to export product and obligate it to develop domestic smelting facilities, if commercially feasible, or to contract with other domestic smelters on a market basis. in connection with the obligations under its cow, in 1995, pt freeport indonesia constructed the only copper smelter and refinery in indonesia, which is owned and operated by pt smelting. in january 2012, the president of indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 mining law, and accordingly, to take steps to assess and negotiate size of work areas, government revenues and domestic processing of minerals (refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion). we intend to continue to work cooperatively with the government of indonesia to complete this review and to seek extension of the cow beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the cow. the cow can only be modified by mutual agreement between pt freeport indonesia and the government of indonesia. grasberg minerals district . pt freeport indonesia operates in the remote highlands of the sudirman mountain range in the province of papua, indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of new guinea. we and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in block a since 1967. the grasberg minerals district currently has three mines in operation: the grasberg open pit, the deep ore zone (doz) mine and the big gossan mine. we also have significant development projects in the grasberg minerals district, which are discussed in more detail in development projects and exploration and in md&amp;a. pt freeport indonesia's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 882 million pounds of copper and 1.4 million ounces of gold in 2011 , 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 2.0 million ounces of gold in 2010 and 1.6 billion pounds of copper and 3.0 million ounces of gold in 2009 . our principal source of power for all our indonesian operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. a combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. our indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. grasberg open pit we began open-pit mining of the grasberg ore body in 1990. open-pit operations are expected to continue through mid-2016, at which time underground mining operations are scheduled to begin at our grasberg block cave mine, which is currently in development. production in the open-pit is currently at the 3,220- to 3,940- meter elevation level and totaled 42 million metric tons of ore in 2011 , which provided approximately 70 percent of pt freeport indonesia's 2011 mill feed. the current equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. the larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 163 haul trucks with payloads ranging from approximately 215 metric tons to 330 metric tons and 18 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 cubic meters to 42 cubic meters, which moved an average of 486,000 metric tons of material per day during 2011 and 701,000 metric tons per day in 2010. the decrease in 2011 primarily reflects the impact of labor disruptions and the temporary suspension of milling operations in fourth-quarter 2011 because of damage to the concentrate and fuel pipelines (refer to md&amp;a for 18 table of contents further discussion). grasberg crushing and conveying systems are integral to the mine and provide the capacity to transport up to 225,000 metric tons per day of grasberg ore to the mill and 135,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. the remaining overburden is moved by haul trucks. doz mine the doz ore body lies vertically below the now depleted intermediate ore zone. we began production from the doz ore body in 1989 using open stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the grasberg deposit. production resumed in september 2000 using the block-cave method. production is at the 3,110-meter elevation level and totaled 19 million metric tons of ore in 2011 . production at the doz mine is expected to continue through 2019. beginning in 2015, we plan to ramp up production at our deep mill level zone (dmlz) block cave mine, which lies below the doz mine and is currently under development. the doz mine fleet consists of over 195 pieces of mobile heavy equipment, which is capable of moving an average of 80,000 metric tons of material per day. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 52 lhd units and 25 haul trucks. our production lhd units typically carry approximately 11 metric tons of ore. using ore passes and chutes, the lhd units transfer ore into 55-metric ton capacity haul trucks. the trucks dump into two gyratory crushers and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles. during 2011 , we completed over 5,000 meters of development drifting in support of the block-cave mining method for the doz mine. the success of the development of the doz mine, one of the world's largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of pt freeport indonesia's large-scale undeveloped underground ore bodies. big gossan mine the big gossan mine lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. it is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. the mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. the crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. the belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and carried to the surface mill stockpile for processing. production from the big gossan mine began in fourth-quarter 2010 and is designed to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by mid-2013, which will result in average annual aggregate incremental production of 125 million pounds of copper and 65,000 ounces of gold, with pt freeport indonesia receiving 60 percent of these amounts. description of ore bodies . our indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the grasberg monzodiorite and the ertsberg diorite. the host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the sudirman range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. the igneous-hosted ore bodies (the grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the doz block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a much lesser extent, bornite. the sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the doz and all of the big gossan) occur as magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. the copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district's ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. these gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. 19 table of contents the following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported ore bodies. the following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported ore bodies and their locations. 20 table of contents africa tfm is organized under the laws of the drc, and we currently own an effective 57.75 percent interest. the remaining ownership interests are held by lundin mining corporation (lundin) (currently an effective 24.75 percent interest) and la g n rale des carri res et des mines (g camines), which is wholly owned by the government of the drc (currently a 17.5 percent non-dilutable interest). tfm is entitled to mine in the drc under an amended and restated mining convention (armc) with the government of the drc. the original mining convention was entered into in 1996 and was replaced with the armc in 2005. as further discussed in note 14 , in october 2010, the government of the drc concluded its review of tfm's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. in connection with the review, tfm made several commitments that have been reflected in amendments to its mining contracts, which were signed by the parties in december 2010. in march 2011, the amendments were approved by a ministerial council, and a presidential decree, signed by the president and prime minister of the drc, was issued in april 2011. after receiving the required government approval of the modifications to tfm's bylaws that reflect agreement with the government of the drc, our effective ownership interest in the project will be reduced to 56.0 percent, lundin's effective ownership interest will be reduced to 24.0 percent and g camines' ownership interest will increase to 20.0 percent (non-dilutable), prospectively. tfm pays a royalty of 2 percent of net revenues under the armc, which totaled $24 million in 2011 , $20 million in 2010 and $7 million in 2009 . the tenke fungurume deposits are located in the katanga province of the drc approximately 110 miles northwest of lubumbashi and are accessible by unpaved roads and by rail. the deposits are sediment-hosted copper and cobalt deposits with oxide, mixed oxide-sulfide and sulfide mineralization. the dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite. important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite. initial copper production commenced at the tenke mine in late march 2009. targeted copper production rates were achieved in september 2009 and the cobalt and sulphuric acid plants were commissioned in third-quarter 2009. copper and cobalt are recovered through an agitation-leach plant. the milling facilities at the tenke mine, which were designed to process ore at a rate of 8,000 metric tons of ore per day, have been performing above capacity, with mill throughput averaging 11,100 metric tons of ore per day in 2011 . mining rates have been increased to enable additional copper production from the initial project capacity of 250 million pounds of copper per year to ramp up to approximately 290 million pounds of copper per year. the current equipment fleet includes one 10-cubic meter mass excavator, two 12-cubic meter front-end loaders, eleven 7-cubic meter front-end loaders, six 91-metric ton haul trucks, 28 45-metric ton haul trucks, surface miners, production drills, sampling machines and crawler dozers. production from the tenke mine totaled 281 million pounds of copper and 25 million pounds of cobalt in 2011 , 265 million pounds of copper and 20 million pounds of cobalt in 2010 and 154 million pounds of copper in 2009 . we are undertaking a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and increasing capacity (refer to development projects and exploration for further discussion of the tenke mill expansion project). we continue to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective tenke fungurume minerals district. these analyses are being incorporated into future 21 table of contents plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion. future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including economic and market conditions and the business and investment climate in the drc. the tenke fungurume minerals district is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated by its higher altitudes. weather in this region is characterized by a dry season and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,518 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,110 meters above sea level. the tenke fungurume deposits are covered by six exploitation permits totaling 394,455 acres. tfm has entered into long-term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with la soci t nationale d'electricit , the state-owned electric utility company serving the region. the results of a recent water exploration program, as well as the regional geological and hydro-geological conditions, indicate that adequate water is available for the project, and for hydro-electric generation during the expected life of the operation. 22 table of contents for comparative purposes, production and sales data shown below for the year ended december 31, 2007, combines our historical data with fmc's pre-acquisition data. as the pre-acquisition operating data represents the results of operations under fmc management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under fcx management or of future operating results. production data years ended december 31, copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 a (fcx's net interest in %) north america morenci (85%) b 522 437 428 626 687 bagdad (100%) 194 203 225 227 202 safford (100%) 151 143 184 133 1 sierrita (100%) 177 147 170 188 150 miami (100%) 66 18 16 19 20 tyrone (100%) 76 82 86 76 50 chino (100%) 69 34 36 155 190 other (100%) 3 3 2 6 20 total north america 1,258 1,067 1,147 1,430 1,320 c south america cerro verde (53.56%) 647 668 662 694 594 el abra (51%) 274 320 358 366 366 candelaria/ojos del salado (80%) 385 366 370 446 453 total south america 1,306 1,354 1,390 1,506 1,413 c indonesia grasberg (90.64%) d 846 1,222 1,412 1,094 1,151 africa tenke fungurume (57.75%) 281 265 154 consolidated 3,691 3,908 4,103 4,030 3,884 less noncontrolling interests 710 766 754 693 653 net 2,981 3,142 3,349 3,337 3,231 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) (fcx's net interest in %) north america (100%) b 10 7 4 14 15 south america (80%) 101 93 92 114 116 indonesia (90.64%) d 1,272 1,786 2,568 1,163 2,198 consolidated 1,383 1,886 2,664 1,291 2,329 c less noncontrolling interests 139 186 258 132 229 net 1,244 1,700 2,406 1,159 2,100 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) (fcx's net interest in %) henderson (100%) 38 40 27 40 39 north america copper mines (100%) 35 b 25 25 30 b 30 b cerro verde (53.56%) 10 7 2 3 1 consolidated 83 72 54 73 70 c less noncontrolling interest 5 3 1 1 net 78 69 53 72 70 a. for comparative purposes, operating data for the year ended december 31, 2007, combines our historical data with fmc's pre-acquisition data. as the pre-acquisition data represents the results of operations under fmc management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under fcx management or of future operating results. b. amounts are net of morenci's 15 percent joint venture partner interest. c. includes fmc's pre-acquisition results of 258 million pounds of copper in north america, 259 million pounds of copper in south america, 21 thousand ounces of gold and 14 million pounds of molybdenum. d. amounts are net of grasberg's joint venture partner's interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement. 23 table of contents sales data years ended december 31, copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 a (fcx's net interest in %) north america morenci (85%) b 521 434 459 646 693 bagdad (100%) 201 206 225 226 200 safford (100%) 147 155 176 107 sierrita (100%) 175 152 172 184 157 miami (100%) 59 17 16 20 24 tyrone (100%) 79 83 85 71 53 chino (100%) 62 35 52 174 186 other (100%) 3 3 2 6 19 total north america 1,247 1,085 1,187 1,434 1,332 c south america cerro verde (53.56%) 657 654 667 701 587 el abra (51%) 276 315 361 365 365 candelaria/ojos del salado (80%) 389 366 366 455 447 total south america 1,322 1,335 1,394 1,521 1,399 c indonesia grasberg (90.64%) d 846 1,214 1,400 1,111 1,131 africa tenke fungurume (57.75%) 283 262 130 consolidated sales from mines 3,698 3,896 4,111 4,066 3,862 less noncontrolling interests 717 756 746 699 647 net 2,981 3,140 3,365 3,367 3,215 consolidated sales from mines 3,698 3,896 4,111 4,066 3,862 purchased copper 223 182 166 483 650 total copper sales, including purchases 3,921 4,078 4,277 4,549 4,512 average realized price per pound $ 3.86 $ 3.59 $ 2.60 $ 2.69 $ 3.22 e gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) (fcx's net interest in %) north america (100%) b 7 5 6 16 21 south america (80%) 101 93 90 116 114 indonesia (90.64%) d 1,270 1,765 2,543 1,182 2,185 consolidated sales from mines 1,378 1,863 2,639 1,314 2,320 c less noncontrolling interests 139 184 256 134 228 net 1,239 1,679 2,383 1,180 2,092 consolidated sales from mines 1,378 1,863 2,639 1,314 2,320 purchased gold 1 1 1 2 6 total gold sales, including purchases 1,379 1,864 2,640 1,316 2,326 average realized price per ounce $ 1,583 $ 1,271 $ 993 $ 861 $ 682 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) consolidated sales from mines 79 67 58 71 69 c less noncontrolling interests 4 3 1 1 net 75 64 57 70 69 consolidated sales from mines 79 67 58 71 69 purchased molybdenum 2 6 8 9 total molybdenum sales, including purchases 79 69 64 79 78 average realized price per pound $ 16.98 $ 16.47 $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 a. for comparative purposes, operating data for the year ended december 31, 2007, combines our historical data with fmc's pre-acquisition data. as the pre-acquisition data represents the results of operations under fmc management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under fcx management or of future operating results. b. amounts are net of morenci's joint venture partner's 15 percent interest. c. includes fmc pre-acquisition results of 283 million pounds of copper in north america, 222 million pounds of copper in south america, 18 thousand ounces of gold and 17 million pounds of molybdenum. d. amounts are net of grasberg's joint venture partner's interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement. e. before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amount was $3.27 per pound. 24 table of contents development projects and exploration we have increased production at several of our copper mines and have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. our near-term major development projects, which will require substantial additional capital investment, are presented below (refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of these projects, our other development projects and exploration activities). morenci . we are advancing a feasibility study at morenci to process additional sulfide ore identified through exploratory drilling. this project would increase milling rates from the current level of 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to 115,000 metric tons of ore per day and targets incremental annual copper production of approximately 225 million pounds within a three-year timeframe. completion of the feasibility study is expected in the first half of 2012. twin buttes . in december 2009, we purchased the twin buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994 and is adjacent to our sierrita mine. the purchase provides significant synergies in the sierrita minerals district, including the potential for expanded mining activities and access to material that can be used for sierrita tailings and stockpile reclamation purposes. we are conducting drilling on the property and metallurgical studies to support a feasibility study expected to commence in 2012. cerro verde . plans for a large-scale concentrator at cerro verde continue to be advanced. the project will expand the concentrator facilities from the current level of 120,000 metric tons per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day, targeting incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. an environmental impact assessment was filed in fourth-quarter 2011. el abra . we are engaged in pre-feasibility studies for a potential large-scale milling operation at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. exploration results at el abra indicate the potential for a significant additional sulfide resource. grasberg . we have several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district, primarily related to the development of the large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the grasberg open pit. in aggregate, these ore bodies are expected to ramp up to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the currently anticipated transition from the grasberg open pit in 2016. tenke . we are undertaking a second phase of the project in the tenke minerals district, which includes optimizing the current plant and increasing capacity. as part of the second phase, we plan to expand the mill rate to 14,000 metric tons of ore per day and to construct related processing facilities that would target the addition of approximately 150 million pounds of copper per year. the project, which includes mill upgrades, additional mining equipment and a new tankhouse and sulphuric acid plant expansion, is targeted for completion in 2013. in addition to the near-term development projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district, we also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the grasberg minerals district for the kucing liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. we expect to mine the kucing liar ore body using the block-cave method; aggregate capital cost estimates for development of the kucing liar ore body are projected to approximate $2 billion (which are expected to be made between 2019 and 2031). additionally, our current mine development plans include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once the grasberg open-pit operations cease (we expect substantially all of these expenditures to be made between 2016 and 2030). considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could differ materially from our estimates. we continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our reserves. 25 table of contents smelting facilities atlantic copper, s.l. our wholly owned atlantic copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the huelva, spain, port authorities, which expire in 2027. the design capacity of the smelter is 290,000 metric tons of copper per year and the refinery currently has a capacity of 285,000 metric tons of copper per year. during 2011 , atlantic copper treated 935,700 metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 253,000 metric tons of copper anodes and 247,400 metric tons of copper cathodes. during 2010 , atlantic copper treated 980,700 metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 255,000 metric tons of copper anodes and 253,000 metric tons of copper cathodes. in may 2011, atlantic copper successfully completed a scheduled 26-day maintenance turnaround. major maintenance turnarounds typically are expected to occur approximately every eight years for atlantic copper, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. the next long-term maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2013. during 2011, we made capital contributions of $202 million to atlantic copper; no capital contributions were made for the years 2005 through 2010. we loan funds to atlantic copper from time to time, and at december 31, 2011 , these loans totaled $586 million . pt smelting . pt freeport indonesia's 1991 cow required us to construct or cause to be constructed a smelter in indonesia if we and the indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. in 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of pt smelting, an indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia. pt smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. pt freeport indonesia, mitsubishi materials corporation (mitsubishi materials), mitsubishi corporation unimetals ltd. (mitsubishi) and jx nippon mining &amp; metals corporation (nippon) own 25 percent, 60.5 percent, 9.5 percent, and 5 percent, respectively, of the outstanding pt smelting common stock. pt freeport indonesia's contract with pt smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (subject to a minimum or maximum rate) necessary for pt smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. pt freeport indonesia also sells copper concentrate to pt smelting (at market rates) for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. refer to note 2 for further discussion of our investment in pt smelting. during 2011 , pt smelting treated 1,087,300 metric tons of concentrate and produced 276,200 metric tons of copper anodes and 274,900 metric tons of copper cathodes. during 2010 , pt smelting treated 1,034,800 metric tons of concentrate and produced 262,700 metric tons of copper anodes and 277,500 metric tons of copper cathodes. in 2008, pt smelting completed a scheduled 25-day maintenance turnaround. major maintenance turnarounds typically are expected to occur approximately every four years for pt smelting, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for may 2012. miami smelter . we own and operate a smelter at our miami, arizona, mining operation. the smelter has been in production for over 80 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with air quality requirements. additionally, there are new air regulations that may require the miami smelter to implement additional new technologies to meet these requirements (refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion). the miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our arizona copper mines. concentrate processed through the smelter totaled approximately 625,000 metric tons in each of 2011 and 2010 . in addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrates, the miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our north america leaching operations. major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every 14 months for the miami smelter, with shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. 26 table of contents other properties and investments rod &amp; refining operations . our rod &amp; refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in north america, including a refinery in el paso, texas; rod mills in el paso, texas, norwich, connecticut, and miami, arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in bayway, new jersey. we refine our copper anode production from our miami smelter, along with purchased anodes, at our el paso refinery. the el paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at miami. our el paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride, and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. molybdenum conversion facilities . we process molybdenum concentrates at our conversion plants in the u.s. and europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates, molybdenum disulfide and molybdenum metal powder. we operate molybdenum roasters in sierrita, arizona; fort madison, iowa; and rotterdam, the netherlands. the conversion facility located at our sierrita mine consists of two molybdenum roasters that process molybdenum concentrates produced at our mines and on a toll basis for third parties. the facility produces molybdenum oxide and related products. the fort madison facility consists of two molybdenum roasters, a sulphur dioxide conversion plant, a metallurgical (technical oxide) packaging facility, and a chemical conversion plant, which includes a wet-chemicals plant, sublimation equipment and molybdenum disulfide processing and packaging. in the chemical plant, molybdic oxide is further refined into various high-purity molybdenum chemicals for a wide range of uses by chemical and catalyst manufacturers. in addition to metallurgical oxide products, the fort madison facility produces ammonium dimolybdate, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium heptamolybdate, ammonium octamolybdate, sodium molybdate, sublimed pure molybdic oxide and molybdenum disulfide. the rotterdam facility consists of a molybdenum roaster, sulphuric acid plant, metallurgical packaging facility and chemical conversion plant. the plant produces metallurgical products primarily for third parties. ammonium dimolybdate and pure molybdic oxide are produced in the wet-chemicals plant. we also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in stowmarket, united kingdom. the plant is operated both as an internal and external customer tolling facility. mcmoran exploration co. (mmr) . in december 2010, we purchased 500,000 shares of mmr's 5 % convertible perpetual preferred stock for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million (refer to note 6 for further discussion). in connection with the purchase, we entered into a registration rights agreement and a stockholder agreement with mmr. mmr is engaged in the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in the shallow waters of the gulf of mexico shelf. mmr is currently undertaking a major capital program to fund recent and planned additional exploration. our investment allows us to participate in mmr's highly prospective north american exploration and development activities, which have the potential to general significant value. several of our directors and executive officers also serve as directors or executive officers of mmr, and our wholly owned subsidiary fm services company (fm services) provides certain executive, technical administrative, accounting, financial, tax and other services to us and to mmr on a cost-reimbursement basis. refer to part iii, item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence, for additional information. sources and availability of raw materials our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented approximately 21 percent of our 2011 consolidated copper production costs and included purchases of approximately 225 million gallons of diesel fuel; 6,475 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america, south america and africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 650 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 million mmbtu (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. for 2012, we estimate energy costs will approximate 23 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. 27 table of contents sulphuric acid is used in the sx/ew process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulphur burners at the safford and tenke mines. sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties as required. our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. although we believe our mining operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. for a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. competition the top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately 50 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. we currently rank second among those producers at approximately nine percent of total worldwide estimated mined copper production. our competitive position is based on the quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. we have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. the metals markets are cyclical and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to manage our costs. labor matters at december 31, 2011 , we employed approximately 31,800 people (approximately 12,300 in indonesia, 11,000 in north america, 4,800 in south america, 2,800 in africa and 900 in europe and other locations). additionally, we have contractors that have personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 10,500 at our grasberg minerals district, 11,500 at our south america mining operations, 3,900 at our tenke fungurume minerals district, 1,500 in north america and 400 at atlantic copper. employees represented by unions are listed below, with the approximate number of employees represented and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further information on labor agreements. location number of unions number of union- represented employees expiration date pt freeport indonesia indonesia 1 8,712 september 2013 tenke fungurume drc 6 2,750 august 2013 cerro verde peru 1 1,407 august 2014 el abra chile 2 925 december 2015 candelaria chile 2 805 july 2013 atlantic copper spain 2 427 december 2011 a chino new mexico 1 286 november 2014 rotterdam the netherlands 2 48 march 2013 bayway new jersey 1 43 april 2013 aurex chile 1 39 december 2013 stowmarket united kingdom 1 31 may 2014 a. negotiations are in progress while employees continue to work under the provisions of the expired contract. environmental and reclamation matters the cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. for information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to item 1a. risk factors , and notes 1 and 13 . 28 table of contents community and human rights we have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects basic human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. we continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs basic education programs public health programs, including malaria control and hiv testing agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs cultural preservation programs water and sewage treatment projects clean water access charitable donations in december 2000, we endorsed the joint u.s. state department-british foreign office voluntary principles on human rights and security (voluntary principles). several major natural resources companies and international human rights organizations participated in developing the voluntary principles and have endorsed them. we participated in developing these principles and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. we believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. south america . cerro verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. during 2006, as a result of discussions with local mayors in the arequipa region, cerro verde agreed to contribute to the design and construction of domestic water and sewage treatment plants for the benefit of the region. these facilities are being designed in a modular fashion so that initial installations can be readily expanded in the future. additionally, during 2006, the peruvian government announced that all mining companies operating in peru would be required to make annual contributions to local development funds for a five-year period (covering the years 2006 through 2010) when copper prices exceeded certain levels that were adjusted annually. the contribution, which expired in 2010, was equal to 3.75 percent of after-tax profits and totaled $41 million in 2010 and $28 million in 2009. refer to note 14 for further discussion. indonesia . in 1996, pt freeport indonesia established the freeport partnership fund for community development (the partnership fund), through which pt freeport indonesia has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development of the area. pt freeport indonesia has committed through 2016 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the partnership fund. our share of contributions to the partnership fund totaled $50 million in 2011 , $64 million in 2010 and $59 million in 2009 . the amungme and kamoro community development organization ( lembaga pembangunan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro or lpmak) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the partnership fund. lpmak is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local amungme and kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of pt freeport indonesia on each board. the amungme and kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. security matters . consistent with our cow in indonesia and the requirement to protect our employees and property, we have taken appropriate steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, pt freeport indonesia maintains its own internal security department, which is unarmed and performs functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring the shipment of company supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department has received human rights training and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human rights policy. pt freeport indonesia's share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $37 million for 2011 , $28 29 table of contents million for 2010 and $18 million for 2009 . pt freeport indonesia, and all businesses and residents of indonesia, rely on the indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesian government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. this designation results in the police and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. the indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. from the outset of pt freeport indonesia's operations, the indonesian government has looked to pt freeport indonesia to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in papua. pt freeport indonesia's financial support for the indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol pt freeport indonesia's roads and secure its operating area. in addition, the provision of such support is consistent with pt freeport indonesia's obligations under the cow, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights. pt freeport indonesia's share of support costs for the government-provided security was $14 million for each of the years 2011 and 2010 , and $10 million for 2009 . this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion of security risks in indonesia. africa . tfm has committed to assist the communities living within its concession in the katanga province of the drc. initiatives include an integrated malaria control program, construction and operational support for six elementary schools, as well as renovation and construction of an additional four schools, installation of over 70 clean water wells, a public sanitation (latrines and hand washing) program reaching over 2,000 households, a mobile clinic for rural villages, and economic development programs supporting micro-credit and development of local entrepreneurs, contractors, and farmers. we have also made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a portion of a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems. tfm has also committed to contribute 0.3 percent of net sales revenue from production to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services. this fund will be a platform to work jointly with the local government and community to further assist them to fulfill their local development plans, meet basic community needs and promote good governance. community development fund contributions totaled $4 million in 2011 , $3 million in 2010 and $1 million in 2009 . security matters . tfm maintains an unarmed internal security department. the national government also has assigned mines police to the tfm concession area. the mines police are a division of the congolese national police and are responsible for maintaining security in mining concessions throughout the drc. tfm provides food, housing, monetary allowances and logistical support as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession area. the total cost to tfm for this support, including in-kind support, totaled less than $1 million in each of the years 2011 , 2010 and 2009 . tfm also participates in monthly security coordination meetings with host country security personnel, other mining companies, and representatives from the united nations to discuss security issues and concerns. 30 table of contents ore reserves recoverable proven and probable reserves summarized below and detailed on the following pages have been calculated as of december 31, 2011 , in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange act of 1934. proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. the term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the term proven reserves means reserves for which (1) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (2) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (3) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. the term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. our reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees; a majority of these estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at december 31, 2011 , were determined using long-term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $750 per ounce for gold, $10 per pound for molybdenum, $15 per ounce for silver and $10 per pound for cobalt. for the three-year period ended december 31, 2011 , lme spot copper prices averaged $3.25 per pound, london pm gold prices averaged $1,245 per ounce, and the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $14.06 per pound. the recoverable proven and probable reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. recoverable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. recoverable proven and probable reserves at december 31, 2011 copper a (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) silver (million ounces) cobalt (billion pounds) north america 40.6 0.4 2.71 98.2 south america 39.1 1.3 0.71 113.4 indonesia 31.6 32.2 118.7 africa 8.4 0.86 consolidated basis b 119.7 33.9 3.42 330.3 0.86 net equity interest c 96.1 30.6 3.09 272.1 0.49 a. recoverable copper reserves include 3.1 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 1.3 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (refer to mill and leach stockpiles for further discussion). b. consolidated basis reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. c. net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 31 table of contents recoverable proven and probable reserves estimated at december 31, 2011 proven reserves probable reserves average ore grade average ore grade processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt million copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % metric tons % g/t % g/t % north america morenci mill 443 0.48 0.025 5 0.48 0.022 crushed leach 594 0.58 9 0.45 rom leach 3,103 0.18 96 0.15 bagdad mill 1,038 0.35 a 0.021 1.75 229 0.32 a 0.017 1.70 rom leach 218 0.12 144 0.11 safford crushed leach 129 0.44 77 0.42 sierrita mill 2,420 0.24 a 0.026 1.42 346 0.21 a 0.020 1.25 rom leach 7 0.20 4 0.22 miami rom leach 50 0.49 10 0.38 tyrone rom leach 141 0.30 7 0.19 chino mill 110 0.59 0.04 0.011 0.48 69 0.55 0.03 0.006 0.44 rom leach 186 0.33 56 0.25 henderson mill 118 0.174 3 0.171 climax mill 75 0.189 112 0.137 cobre b rom leach 71 0.40 2 0.23 8,703 0.27 a 0.015 0.61 1,169 0.23 a 0.023 0.73 south america cerro verde mill 888 0.41 0.016 1.75 2,864 0.39 0.015 1.64 crushed leach 91 0.52 55 0.45 rom leach 37 0.21 42 0.21 el abra crushed leach 386 0.52 131 0.49 rom leach 218 0.32 146 0.27 candelaria mill 317 0.57 0.13 2.05 22 0.64 0.16 2.25 ojos del salado mill 3 1.17 0.28 4.44 3 0.81 0.22 3.50 1,940 0.45 0.02 0.007 1.14 3,263 0.39 a 0.013 1.46 indonesia grasberg open pit mill 204 0.91 1.05 2.35 108 0.74 0.64 1.87 deep ore zone mill 62 0.58 0.68 2.50 144 0.56 0.69 2.33 big gossan mill 14 2.34 1.14 15.41 42 2.12 0.91 12.80 grasberg block cave b mill 335 1.21 1.04 3.46 684 0.88 0.64 3.29 kucing liar b mill 149 1.31 1.15 8.00 271 1.18 1.06 6.47 deep mill level zone b mill 65 0.95 0.76 4.70 445 0.83 0.71 4.11 829 1.10 1.01 4.22 1,694 0.91 0.73 4.08 africa tenke fungurume agitation leach 54 3.26 0.36 87 2.84 0.30 total fcx - 100% basis 11,526 0.38 0.08 0.013 0.96 a 6,213 0.53 0.20 0.011 2.01 a a. grade not shown because of rounding. b. undeveloped reserves that would require significant capital investment to bring into production. the reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below: g/t grams per metric ton moly molybdenum rom run of mine 32 table of contents recoverable proven and probable reserves estimated at december 31, 2011 (continued) average ore grade recoveries a proven and probable processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % % % north america morenci mill 448 0.48 0.025 79.1 38.9 crushed leach 603 0.58 77.8 rom leach 3,199 0.18 43.3 bagdad mill 1,267 0.35 b 0.020 1.74 85.6 59.1 70.7 49.3 rom leach 362 0.12 25.4 safford crushed leach 206 0.43 67.2 sierrita mill 2,766 0.23 b 0.025 1.39 83.0 60.6 80.7 49.3 rom leach 11 0.21 52.7 miami rom leach 60 0.47 60.5 tyrone rom leach 148 0.29 61.1 chino mill 179 0.57 0.04 0.009 0.47 78.7 78.0 41.8 78.5 rom leach 242 0.31 43.1 henderson mill 121 0.174 85.4 climax mill 187 0.158 88.8 cobre c rom leach 73 0.39 50.7 9,872 south america cerro verde mill 3,752 0.39 0.015 1.67 86.0 54.4 44.9 crushed leach 146 0.50 79.8 rom leach 79 0.21 41.0 el abra crushed leach 517 0.51 58.3 rom leach 364 0.30 24.0 candelaria mill 339 0.58 0.13 2.06 89.2 71.9 76.3 ojos del salado mill 6 1.00 0.25 3.99 90.4 60.6 65.8 5,203 indonesia grasberg open pit mill 312 0.85 0.91 2.19 83.4 80.2 43.1 deep ore zone mill 206 0.57 0.69 2.38 86.5 77.3 64.2 big gossan mill 56 2.18 0.97 13.44 91.6 65.0 63.8 grasberg block cave c mill 1,019 0.98 0.77 3.34 84.3 64.9 57.9 kucing liar c mill 420 1.23 1.09 7.01 85.6 46.1 38.5 deep mill level zone c mill 510 0.85 0.72 4.19 87.0 79.3 64.7 2,523 africa tenke fungurume agitation leach 141 3.00 0.32 86.3 75.2 total fcx - 100% basis 17,739 a. recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. grade not shown because of rounding. c. undeveloped reserves that would require significant capital investment to bring into production. 33 table of contents recoverable proven and probable reserves estimated at december 31, 2011 (continued) recoverable reserves copper gold moly silver cobalt fcx's processing billion million billion million billion interest method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. lbs. north america morenci 85% mill 3.7 0.09 crushed leach 6.0 rom leach 5.4 bagdad 100% mill 8.3 0.1 0.40 35.0 rom leach 0.3 safford 100% crushed leach 1.3 sierrita 100% mill 11.8 0.1 1.24 61.1 rom leach a miami 100% rom leach 0.4 tyrone 100% rom leach 0.6 chino 100% mill 1.8 0.2 0.01 2.1 rom leach 0.7 henderson 100% mill 0.40 climax 100% mill 0.58 cobre 100% rom leach 0.3 40.6 0.4 2.72 98.2 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 2.4 a 100% operations 43.0 0.4 2.72 98.2 consolidated c 40.6 0.4 2.71 98.2 net equity interest d 40.6 0.4 2.71 98.2 south america cerro verde 53.56% mill 28.0 0.69 90.2 crushed leach 1.3 rom leach 0.2 el abra 51% crushed leach 3.4 rom leach 0.5 candelaria 80% mill 3.8 1.0 17.1 ojos del salado 80% mill 0.1 0.1 0.5 37.3 1.1 0.69 107.8 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 1.8 0.2 0.02 5.6 100% operations 39.1 1.3 0.71 113.4 consolidated c 39.1 1.3 0.71 113.4 net equity interest d 22.1 1.0 0.38 66.4 indonesia grasberg open pit e mill 4.9 7.3 9.5 deep ore zone e mill 2.2 3.5 10.1 big gossan e mill 2.4 1.2 15.4 grasberg block cave e mill 18.7 16.3 63.3 kucing liar e mill 9.7 6.8 36.5 deep mill level zone e mill 8.3 9.3 44.4 100% operations 46.2 44.4 179.2 consolidated c 31.6 32.2 118.7 net equity interest d 28.6 29.2 107.5 africa tenke fungurume 57.75% agitation leach 8.1 0.75 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 0.3 0.11 100% operations 8.4 0.86 consolidated c 8.4 0.86 net equity interest d 4.8 0.49 total fcx 100% basis 136.7 46.1 3.43 390.8 0.86 total fcx consolidated basis c 119.7 33.9 3.42 330.3 0.86 total fcx net equity interest d 96.1 30.6 3.09 272.1 0.49 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. refer to "mill and leach stockpiles" for additional information. c. consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. d. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. e. our joint venture agreement with rio tinto provides that pt freeport indonesia will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of december 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow. 34 table of contents in defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. the objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. we use a break-even cutoff grade to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. the break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. we value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. the calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. the table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of december 31, 2011 : copper equivalent cutoff grade (percent) molybdenum cutoff grade (percent) mill crushed or agitation leach rom leach mill north america morenci 0.25 0.19 0.03 n/a bagdad 0.20 n/a 0.01 n/a safford n/a 0.12 n/a n/a sierrita 0.18 n/a 0.09 n/a miami n/a n/a 0.05 n/a tyrone n/a n/a 0.05 n/a chino 0.20 n/a 0.08 n/a henderson n/a n/a n/a 0.12 climax n/a n/a n/a 0.06 cobre n/a n/a 0.17 n/a south america cerro verde 0.20 0.20 0.14 n/a el abra n/a 0.16 0.06 n/a candelaria 0.23 n/a n/a n/a ojos del salado 0.64 n/a n/a n/a indonesia grasberg open pit 0.25 n/a n/a n/a deep ore zone 0.62 n/a n/a n/a big gossan 1.55 n/a n/a n/a grasberg block cave 0.58 n/a n/a n/a kucing liar 0.68 n/a n/a n/a deep mill level zone 0.62 n/a n/a n/a africa tenke fungurume n/a 1.11 n/a n/a 35 table of contents drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. the following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: average drill hole spacing (in meters) proven probable mining unit mill leach mill leach north america morenci open pit 86 86 122 122 bagdad open pit 86 86 122 122 safford open pit n/a 86 n/a 122 sierrita open pit 73 37 120 75 miami open pit n/a 61 n/a 91 tyrone open pit n/a 86 n/a 86 chino open pit 43 86 86 122 henderson block cave 38 n/a 85 n/a climax open pit 61 n/a 122 n/a cobre open pit n/a 61 n/a 91 south america cerro verde open pit 50 50 100 100 el abra open pit n/a 75 n/a 120 candelaria open pit 35 n/a 70 n/a ojos del salado sublevel stoping 25 n/a 50 n/a indonesia grasberg open pit 37 n/a 114 n/a deep ore zone block cave 23 n/a 56 n/a big gossan open stope 12 n/a 39 n/a grasberg block cave 32 n/a 97 n/a kucing liar block cave 39 n/a 107 n/a deep mill level zone block cave 21 n/a 84 n/a africa tenke fungurume open pit n/a 50 n/a 100 36 table of contents production sequencing the following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body. the chart also shows the term of pt freeport indonesia's cow. production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. the ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. in addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below. mill and leach stockpiles mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from the ore body and are available for copper recovery. for mill stockpiles, recovery is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. for leach stockpiles, recovery is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary 37 table of contents significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored continuously, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of december 31, 2011 : recoverable millions of average recovery copper metric tons grade (%) rate (%) (billion pounds) mill stockpiles cerro verde 86 0.42 81.4 0.6 candelaria 96 0.37 83.1 0.7 182 0.39 82.3 1.3 leach stockpiles morenci 4,957 0.25 1.9 0.5 bagdad 427 0.27 2.7 0.1 safford 114 0.44 23.1 0.3 sierrita 649 0.15 12.4 0.3 miami 460 0.38 2.0 0.1 tyrone 1,029 0.28 2.4 0.1 chino 1,602 0.26 11.4 1.0 cerro verde 411 0.53 2.6 0.1 el abra 373 0.36 11.7 0.4 tenke fungurume 14 1.10 92.4 0.3 10,036 0.27 5.2 3.2 total fcx - 100% basis 4.5 total fcx - consolidated basis a 4.4 total fcx - net equity interest b 3.6 a. consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint venture partner's interest in the morenci mine in north america. b. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. mineralized material we hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. however, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $2.20 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold and $12 per pound for molybdenum. 38 table of contents mineralized material estimated at december 31, 2011 milling material leaching material total mineralized material million million million fcx's metric copper gold moly metric copper metric copper gold moly interest tons % g/t % tons % tons % g/t % north america morenci 85% 508 0.37 0.018 1,893 0.22 2,401 0.26 0.004 bagdad a 100% 301 0.30 b 0.019 31 0.12 332 0.29 b 0.017 safford a 100% 685 0.45 0.08 0.004 118 0.26 803 0.43 0.07 0.004 sierrita a 100% 1,587 0.18 b 0.022 15 0.15 1,602 0.18 b 0.022 miami 100% 27 0.47 27 0.47 tyrone 100% 84 0.32 84 0.32 chino 100% 177 0.45 0.013 179 0.32 356 0.39 0.006 henderson 100% 158 0.148 158 0.148 climax 100% 332 0.147 332 0.147 cobre 100% 45 0.57 12 0.29 57 0.51 ajo a 100% 915 0.33 0.06 0.007 915 0.33 0.06 0.007 cochise/bisbee 100% 280 0.44 280 0.44 lone star 100% 645 0.45 645 0.45 sanchez 100% 178 0.29 178 0.29 tohono 100% 220 0.70 261 0.65 481 0.67 twin buttes a 100% 595 0.40 0.026 59 0.21 654 0.38 0.024 south america cerro verde a 53.56% 919 0.37 0.014 12 0.35 931 0.37 0.014 el abra 51% 929 0.45 383 0.26 1,312 0.40 candelaria a 80% 77 0.58 0.13 77 0.58 0.13 indonesia grasberg minerals district a 54.38% c 2,386 0.62 0.57 2,386 0.62 0.57 africa tenke fungurume d 57.75% 83 3.44 22 2.81 105 3.31 kisanfu d 95% 55 2.32 50 3.00 105 2.64 total fcx - 100% basis 9,972 4,249 14,221 total fcx - consolidated basis e 8,941 3,965 12,906 total fcx - net equity interest f 7,872 3,759 11,631 a. stated tonnage also includes silver at bagdad (0.6 g/t), safford (1.5 g/t), sierrita (1.1 g/t), ajo (0.9 g/t), twin buttes (2.3 g/t), cerro verde (1.6 g/t), candelaria (1.9 g/t) and the grasberg minerals district (3.5 g/t). b. amounts not shown because of rounding. c. fcx's interest in the grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership. d. stated tonnage also includes cobalt at tenke fungurume (0.29 percent) and kisanfu (1.08 percent). e. consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for our joint venture partners' interest in the morenci mine and the grasberg minerals district. f. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 39 table of contents item 1a. risk factors this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of united states (u.s.) federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, exploration efforts and results, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, the impact of copper, gold molybdenum and cobalt price changes, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, reclamation and closure costs and plans, environmental liabilities and expenditures, litigation contingencies and results, dividend payments, potential prepayments of debt, reserve estimates, and anticipated political, economic and social conditions in our areas of operations. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following. financial risks extended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and/or molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows and, if sustained, could adversely affect our ability to repay debt. fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold or molybdenum can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and equity securities. our financial results vary as a result of fluctuations in metal market prices, including copper, gold and molybdenum (for further information about the market prices of these commodities, refer to discussion below and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ). an extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could adversely affect our financial results, affect our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. additionally, if market prices for the metals we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. we may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses. substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted london metal exchange (lme) monthly average spot copper prices. accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from adjustments to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs. copper prices have fluctuated historically, with lme spot copper prices ranging from $1.38 to $4.60 per pound during the three years ended december 31, 2011 . copper prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the u.s. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world; available supplies of copper from mine production and inventories; sales by holders and producers of copper; demand for industrial products containing copper; investment activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity; the availability and cost of substitute materials; and currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the u.s. dollar. 40 table of contents gold prices have also fluctuated historically, with the london pm gold price ranging from $810 to $1,895 per ounce during the three years ended december 31, 2011. gold prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the u.s. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including china and india; global or regional political or economic crises; the relative strength or weakness of the u.s. dollar and other currencies; expectations with respect to the rate of inflation; interest rates; purchases and sales of gold by governments, central banks and other holders; demand for jewelry containing gold; and investment activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity. molybdenum prices also fluctuate, with the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price ranging from $7.83 to $18.60 per pound during the three years ended december 31, 2011. molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply; rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel; the volume of molybdenum produced as a by-product of copper production; inventory levels; currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the u.s. dollar; and production costs of u.s. and foreign competitors. under u.s. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we generally are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act (cercla) or equivalent state regulations. the failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse affect on us. we are required by u.s. federal and state laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. these laws are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. the laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance. epa and state agencies may seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under cercla or equivalent state regulations. in july 2009, epa published a priority notice of action identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements concerning the degree and duration of risk associated with the production, transportation, treatment, storage or disposal of hazardous substances. in epa's semi-annual regulatory agenda published on february 13, 2012, epa indicated that it intends to propose regulations regarding hardrock mining financial responsibility in april 2013. it is uncertain how the new requirements, if promulgated, will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations. 41 table of contents the amount of financial assurance we are required to provide will vary with changes in laws, regulations and reclamation and closure requirements and cost estimates. as of december 31, 2011 , our financial assurance obligations associated with closure and reclamation costs in new mexico, arizona and colorado totaled $899 million , of which $565 million was in the form of parent company guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. our ability to continue to provide financial assurance in the form of parent guarantees and financial capability demonstrations depends on our ability to meet financial tests. certain of the ratios in these tests are significantly more rigorous for companies that do not have an investment grade rating from a state-approved ratings service. we are currently rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's rating services (s&amp;p), fitch ratings and moody's investors service (moody's). if we fail to maintain our investment grade rating, we would be subject to these more rigorous tests, in which case the regulatory agencies may require us to provide alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. depending on our financial condition and market conditions, these other forms of financial assurance may be difficult or costly to provide. issuance of letters of credit under our credit facilities would reduce our available liquidity. failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines. as of december 31, 2011 , we had limited financial assurance obligations associated with cercla-related remediation obligations, although epa and certain states are currently considering increasing the use of financial assurance requirements for such obligations. for additional information, see the environmental risk factor mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. in july 2011, the chilean senate passed legislation regulating mine closure, which establishes new requirements for closure plans and becomes effective in november 2012. our chilean operations will be required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. we cannot predict at this time the costs of these closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required. in december 2010, the president of indonesia issued a regulation regarding mine reclamation and closure, which requires a company to provide a mine closure guarantee in the form of a time deposit placed in a state-owned bank in indonesia. in accordance with its contract of work (cow), pt freeport indonesia is working with the department of energy and mineral resources to review these requirements, including discussions of other options for the mine closure guarantee. in december 2009, pt freeport indonesia submitted its revised mine closure plan to the department of energy and minerals resources for review and has addressed comments received during the course of this review process. movements in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our operating results. the functional currency for most of our operations is the u.s. dollar. all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in u.s. dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the indonesian rupiah, australian dollar, chilean peso, peruvian nuevo sol, euro and south african rand. generally, our results are positively affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the u.s. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. refer to item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a summary of the estimated impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs. from time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange. however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. international risks our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries. we are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru, chile and the democratic republic of congo (drc). accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. such risks include: renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts, expropriation or nationalization of property, 42 table of contents changes in a foreign country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism, foreign exchange controls, and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. in october 2010, pt freeport indonesia received an assessment from the indonesian tax authorities for additional taxes of $106 million and interest of $52 million related to various audit exceptions for 2005. in november 2011, pt freeport indonesia received an assessment from the indonesian tax authorities for additional taxes of $22 million and interest of $10 million related to various audit exceptions for 2006. pt freeport indonesia has paid $109 million for these disputed tax assessments and filed objections to these assessments because it believes it has properly paid all taxes. pt freeport indonesia is working with the indonesian tax authorities to resolve these matters and expects to receive additional assessments from the indonesian tax authorities for their audit of its 2007 tax return. in december 2009, pt freeport indonesia was notified by the large taxpayer's office of the government of indonesia of its view that pt freeport indonesia is obligated to pay value added taxes on certain goods imported after the year 2000. the amount of such taxes and related penalties under this view would be significant. pt freeport indonesia believes that, pursuant to the terms of its cow, it is only required to pay value added taxes on these types of goods imported after december 30, 2009. pt freeport indonesia has not received a formal assessment and is working with the applicable government authorities to resolve this matter. sunat, the peruvian national tax authority, has assessed mining royalties on materials processed by the cerro verde concentrator which commenced operations in late 2006. these assessments cover the period october 2006 to december 2007 and the years 2008 and 2009. sunat has issued rulings denying cerro verde's protest of the assessments. cerro verde has appealed these decisions and currently has three cases pending before the peruvian tax tribunal. cerro verde is challenging these royalties because it believes its stability agreement provides an exemption for all minerals extracted from its mining concession, irrespective of the method used for processing those minerals. although we believe our interpretation of the stability agreement is correct, if cerro verde is ultimately found responsible for these assessments, it will also be liable for interest, which accrues at rates that range from approximately 7 to 18 percent based on the year accrued and the currency in which the amounts would be payable. at december 31, 2011 , the aggregate amount of the assessments, including interest and penalties, totaled $190 million. sunat may continue to assess mining royalties annually until this matter is resolved by the peruvian tax tribunal. because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia. indonesia has faced political and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. in particular, several separatist groups are opposing indonesian rule over the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. in response, indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective january 1, 2001. the manner in which those laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in indonesian politics. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a cow with the indonesian government. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the 43 table of contents environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. between july 2009 and february 2012, there were 32 shooting incidents in and around the grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which resulted in 15 fatalities and 56 injuries. victims included pt freeport indonesia employees, contractors, members of law enforcement and civilians. the identity of the perpetrators is unknown as is the motivation for the shootings. the investigation of these matters is continuing. we have taken precautionary measures, including using secured convoys on the road. the indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt freeport indonesia is working cooperatively with the government of indonesia to address security issues. during 2011, pt freeport indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. the strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. although a new labor agreement was reached in mid-december 2011, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at pt freeport indonesia. pt freeport indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory personnel who did not participate in the strike. on february 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily suspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. we are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion. large numbers of illegal miners have continued to operate along the river used to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in pt freeport indonesia's government-approved tailings management area. the illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. in 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the grasberg mine and mill in protest, and pt freeport indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our indonesian operations. if additional violence or other disruptive incidents occur, it could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time. we do not expect to mine all of our ore reserves in indonesia before the initial term of our cow expires. pt freeport indonesia is entitled to mine in indonesia under its cow with the government of indonesia. the initial term of the current cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current cow, and there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve the extensions. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 31 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2011, representing 37 percent of pt freeport indonesia's share of recoverable copper reserves and 49 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. in 2009, indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to pt freeport indonesia. in 2011 and 2010, the government of indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2009 mining law and certain provisions address existing contracts of work. the laws and regulations provide that contracts of work will continue to be honored until their expiration. however, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to existing contracts and may seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work, even though our cow provides for two 10-year extension periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. in february 2012, a new regulation was adopted that would require mining companies in indonesia to process all minerals domestically and possibly ban export of concentrates and other unrefined minerals. there are specific provisions included in pt freeport indonesia's existing cow that define its rights to 44 table of contents export product and the obligation to develop domestic smelting capacity if commercially feasible, or to contract with other domestic smelters on a market basis. in connection with the obligations under its cow, in 1995, pt freeport indonesia constructed the only copper smelter and refinery in indonesia, which is owned and operated by pt smelting. our cows in indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel. pt freeport indonesia's cow and other cows in which we have an interest were entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. our cows can be terminated by the government of indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. certain forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established under our cow. although our cow grants to pt freeport indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the cow, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions on pt freeport indonesia that could affect exploration and operating requirements. at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the government of indonesia prior to may 1998 ( i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt freeport indonesia's cow, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the cows will not be challenged for political or other reasons. pt freeport indonesia's cow and our other cows require that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. accordingly, if a dispute arises under the cows, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. indonesian government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our compliance with indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of the cows. in january 2012, the president of indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 mining law, and accordingly, to take steps to assess and negotiate size of work areas, government revenues, and domestic processing of minerals. the team includes 14 cabinet-level members representing 13 formal government institutions led by the coordinating minister of economy and the minister of energy and mineral resources, with the director general of mineral and coal as the secretary. the team's assignment runs through december 2013 and the group is expected to provide progress reports to the president every six months. we intend to continue to work cooperatively with the government of indonesia to complete this review and to seek extension of the cow beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the cow. the cow can only be modified by mutual agreement between pt freeport indonesia and the government of indonesia. any suspension of required activities under our cows requires the consent of the indonesian government. our cows permit us to suspend certain contractually required activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written request to the indonesian government. these requests are subject to the approval of the indonesian government and are renewable annually. if we do not request a suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our activities under the cow or potentially be declared in default. moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other than force majeure and the indonesian government has not approved such continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under the cow. we previously suspended our field exploration activities outside of the block a area of pt freeport indonesia's cow because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest areas and an indonesian forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open-pit mining in forest preservation areas. in 2001, we requested and received from the government of indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under the cows in all areas outside of block a. recent indonesian legislation permits open-pit mining in the block b area of pt freeport indonesia's cow, subject to certain requirements. following an assessment of these requirements and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in certain prospective cow areas outside of block a. 45 table of contents the tenke fungurume minerals district is located in the katanga province of the drc, and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in the drc. during 2009, we completed construction activities and commenced copper production at the tenke fungurume mine (the tenke mine) located in the drc. since gaining independence in 1960, the drc has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crisis. these factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. as part of a review of all mining contracts by the ministry of mines (the ministry) in the drc, in february 2008, we received notification that the ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of tenke fungurume mining s.a.r.l.'s (tfm) mining concessions. in october 2010, the government of the drc concluded its review of tfm's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. in connection with the review, tfm made several commitments that have been reflected in amendments to its mining contracts, which were signed by the parties in december 2010 (refer to note 14 for further discussion). in march 2011, the amendments were approved by a ministerial council, and a presidential decree, signed by the president and prime minister of the drc, was issued in april 2011. after receiving the required government approval of the modification to tfm's bylaws that reflect the agreement with the government of the drc, our effective ownership interest in the project will be reduced to 56.0 percent prospectively, compared to our current ownership interest of 57.75 percent. in november 2011, the drc held a general presidential election. on december 16, 2011, incumbent president joseph kabila was declared the winner of that election by the drc supreme court. there has been widespread international and local criticism of the election and episodes of protests, some of which were accompanied by acts of violence. in july 2009, tfm was advised that the minister of justice in the drc authorized an inquiry regarding the alleged misappropriation of public funds in connection with securing labor and immigration authorizations and the payment of associated fees for the tenke fungurume project. several government officials and three tfm employees were arrested. in october 2009, the three tfm employees were tried and acquitted. one government official, the head of immigration in the katanga province, was sentenced to five years imprisonment on charges of embezzlement. the office of the attorney general of the drc filed a notice of appeal of the judgment, and the matter is pending at the appellate court. in july 2009, tfm entered into a settlement agreement with drc tax authorities in connection with an administrative audit regarding the payment of fees for work permits and visas for its foreign workers and subcontractors, including short-term workers. pursuant to the agreement, which covers the period from january 2007 to the date of the settlement, tfm paid approximately $16 million in fees and penalties. the procedures associated with obtaining labor and immigration authorizations for short-term workers on a timely basis are not clearly established in the drc, and tfm continues to work proactively and cooperatively with the government authorities to establish approved procedures for doing so consistent with its mining convention and local law. in connection with this matter, we notified the u.s. government enforcement authorities about our internal investigation of the immigration work permit and visa matter and the associated criminal case. we have received and responded to requests from u.s. government authorities related to the matter and to other requests for information about our compliance program. political, economic and social risks that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business include: political risks associated with the establishment and re-election of the present government; cancellation or renegotiation of mining contracts by the government; legal and regulatory uncertainties, governmental corruption and bribery; royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims; security risks due to the remote location in the southern drc and violence in the northeastern provinces of the drc; 46 table of contents risk of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property; and risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. accordingly, the tenke fungurume minerals district and its future development projects may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our operating results, interrupt our operations or result in a loss of all or part of our investment in the drc. terrorist attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. in july 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the jw marriott and ritz-carlton hotels in jakarta, indonesia, that killed nine people and injured 53 others. two of our indonesian-based executives were injured in the incident. in july 2009, a small group of individuals created a disturbance on the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our grasberg minerals district and vandalized vehicles and small buildings. there were no injuries. for more information about a series of shooting incidents near our grasberg minerals district, refer to the risk factor because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia. in august 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an ambush by a group of unidentified assailants on the road near tembagapura, the mining town where the majority of pt freeport indonesia's personnel reside. the assailants shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers from our school in tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to pt freeport indonesia. the u.s. federal bureau of investigation (fbi) investigated the incident, which resulted in the u.s. indictment of an alleged operational commander of the free papua movement/national freedom force. in january 2006, indonesian police, accompanied by fbi agents, arrested the alleged operational commander and 11 other papuans. in november 2006, verdicts and sentencing were announced for seven of those accused in the august 2002 shooting, including a life sentence for the confessed leader of the attack. in october 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the indonesian province of bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. in august 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the jw marriott hotel in jakarta, indonesia. in september 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the australian embassy in jakarta. in october 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in bali. the same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. in november 2005, indonesian police raided a house in east java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but pt freeport indonesia's corporate office in jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the australian embassy. in addition to the bali, jw marriott hotel and australian embassy bombings, there have been anti-american demonstrations in certain sections of indonesia reportedly led by radical islamic activists. no assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence will not occur. if there were to be additional terrorist incidents or acts of violence, particularly at or near our operations, there could be no assurance that the occurrence of such events would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. operational risks our business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. these operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows, include the following: earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; 47 table of contents the occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines; problems associated with the construction and management of large impoundments containing tailings or other viscous or semi-solid materials, some of which also contain mineral and chemical contaminants, such as structural failures or leakages; interruption of energy supply; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; metallurgical and other processing problems; unanticipated ground and water conditions; adverse claims to water rights, adverse outcomes of pending water adjudications and shortages of water to which we have rights; adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government authorizations, approvals or permits; delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; the inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage. the failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both in and around our areas of operations, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in or curtailments of production. labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as further described in items 1 and 2. business and properties, we are party to labor agreements with various unions that represent employees at our operations. labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and the risk exists that labor agreements may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. we cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning those issues will be concluded successfully. our production and sales volumes could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations adversely affected by significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. during 2011, pt freeport indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. the strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. in mid-december 2011, the financial terms of a new two-year labor agreement for pt freeport indonesia were reached and the parties agreed that future wage negotiations would be based on living costs and the competitiveness of wages within indonesia. although a new labor agreement has been reached, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at pt freeport indonesia. pt freeport indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory personnel who did not participate in the strike. on february 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily 48 table of contents suspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. we are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion. in fourth-quarter 2011, there was an approximate two-month labor strike at cerro verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. the strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three-year agreement with the union was reached in late december 2011. if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies. our operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. our operations in north and south america are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. continuous production at our mines depends on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims. at our north america operations, our water rights give us only the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. in arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which, for over 30 years, the state of arizona has been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems that affect four of our operating mines (morenci, safford, sierrita and miami). the legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our bagdad mine. groundwater has historically been treated separately from surface water under arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. however, court decisions in recent years have concluded that if groundwater pumping produces or affects surface water, then such pumping requires surface water rights and is subject to the general stream adjudications. the effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water is currently the focus of one of those adjudications. in colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority of administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the climax molybdenum mine. in new mexico, our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated. water for our cerro verde mining operation comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. due to occasional drought conditions and the possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our current and planned cerro verde operations. cerro verde has been conducting water studies to assess opportunities for additional supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. in 2011, cerro verde reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar) and other local institutions to allow cerro verde to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant, should it proceed with plans for a large-scale concentrator expansion. once cerro verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement its existing water supplies to support the potential concentrator expansion. water for our el abra mining operation comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. we believe that el abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations, however, a change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our sulfide groundwater pumping, which is permitted through 2021. el abra is also conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the pacific ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing. water for our candelaria and ojos del salado mining operations is drawn from the copiap river aquifer. because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, candelaria is expanding its sources of water supply. during 2010, we completed construction of a pipeline to convey reclaimed water from a nearby water treatment facility to our 49 table of contents candelaria mine. we have also completed engineering and began construction for a desalination plant near the pacific ocean that will supply candelaria's longer term water needs. the plant is expected to be completed in early 2013. although we believe each operation has sufficient water rights and claims to cover current operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. the loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines, or physical shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or close mining operations and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas. for the year 2011 , energy represented approximately 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. an inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. our consolidated copper production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, tires, explosives and diluents. the prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. the grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. in october 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. in december 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. the events caused us to alter our short-term mine sequencing plans; normal production activities resumed in second-quarter 2004. in march 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting pt freeport indonesia's mining facilities. three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. the material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. as a result of investigations by pt freeport indonesia and the indonesian department of energy and mineral resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. the existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded. in september 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our grasberg open pit. there were no injuries or property damage. the event caused a delay in our access to the high-grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future periods. in april 2011, two pt freeport indonesia employees died in an accident when a portion of the deep ore zone (doz) mine experienced an uncontrolled muck flow. the area was temporarily shut down during the investigation of the accident. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our africa mining operation involves additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the drc. the tenke fungurume minerals district is located in a remote area of the drc and is subject to additional challenges, including: 50 table of contents severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; challenges in obtaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria and cholera. additionally, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the tenke mine approximately 1,900 miles to ports in south africa. the tenke fungurume minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. the volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange age of 1934, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth or our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. in addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. a sustained decrease in commodity prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. these factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. there are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from mill and leach stockpiles. the quantity of copper delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. accordingly, the volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and copper recovered from stockpiles may be less than anticipated. we must continually replace reserves depleted by production. our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long-term viability. produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. exploration is highly speculative in nature. our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. as a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. there is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. 51 table of contents development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects. the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and estimated future prices of the relevant minerals. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can adversely affect project economics. moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems. therefore, it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion of our current development projects. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. these development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. it is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. it is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in capital expenditures. the development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the following: unanticipated geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic conditions; challenges related to hiring and training personnel required for underground mining activities; larger than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping mining methods; and unanticipated delays in the development of major access and supporting infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical components and longer than planned construction periods. some of these risks could result in delays to production startup and a loss or reduction in minable tons. there can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. environmental risks our domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and regulatory requirements involves significant costs. our mining operations and exploration activities, both in the u.s. and elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration, development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, and increased demand for remediation services leading to shortages of equipment, supplies and labor, as well as other factors. recent examples of these trends include epa's june 2010, promulgation of a new sulphur dioxide ambient air standard and epa's efforts to curtail the exemption of mining operations from waste management regulation under the federal resource conservation and recovery act. these and other such actions could have a significant impact on our operational compliance and closure costs. in addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc, formerly phelps dodge corporation), and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in mining, milling, and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial 52 table of contents companies understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean-up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address these remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2011 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the u.s. in 27 states. at december 31, 2011 , we had $1.5 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributed to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago; our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. refer to note 13 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. during 2011 , we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $387 million , compared with $372 million in 2010 and $289 million in 2009 . for 2012 , we expect to incur approximately $636 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities, and as actual spending occurs. an adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us. as described in note 13, we are a defendant in numerous, and in some cases significant, litigation matters involving alleged environmental contamination, alleged environmental toxic torts and complex interpretations of environmental regulations. an adverse ruling in one or more of those matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesian government, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the 53 table of contents footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. from time to time, certain indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. in connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the indonesian government, we committed to perform a one-time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. we completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the indonesian government in december 2002. we developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the indonesian government, academia and non-governmental organizations. the risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents. since 2005, pt freeport indonesia has participated in the government of indonesia's proper (program for pollution control, evaluation and rating) program. in november 2011, the indonesian ministry of environment announced the latest results of its proper environmental management audit, but did not provide a rating for pt freeport indonesia because of the strike and security conditions that existed during 2011. in 2010, the indonesia ministry of environment issued a blue rating acknowledging pt freeport indonesia's environmental management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in indonesia. mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. our u.s. operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined-land reclamation obligations. these requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. the laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. in general, our u.s. mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. it is uncertain how potential epa requirements for financial assurance will affect the timing of periodic closure cost reviews or the scope of closure activities. our international mines are also subject to various mine closure and mined-land reclamation laws. in july 2011, the chilean senate passed legislation relating to mine closure, which establishes new requirements for closure plans and becomes effective in november 2012. as a result, our chilean operations will be required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. we cannot predict at this time the costs of these closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required. at december 31, 2011 , we had asset retirement obligations (aros) of $921 million recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. aro cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in closure or financial assurance regulations, changes in engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, changes in mine plans, inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. refer to note 13 for further discussion. 54 table of contents regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets. many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, potentially contribute to climate change. in 2011, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were approximately 10 million metric tons, divided between direct (54 percent) and indirect (46 percent) emissions. most of our direct emissions are from fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. indirect emissions are generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. approximately 56 percent of our direct emissions are in indonesia, 28 percent in north america and 10 percent in south america. approximately 58 percent of our indirect emissions are in north america and 40 percent in south america. a number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory initiatives designed to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in the u.s. several of these regulatory changes are being challenged at both the federal and state levels. in september 2009, the epa issued final regulations requiring monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in specified circumstances. those regulations became effective in 2010. our miami smelter and el paso refinery have reported their emissions under this program. in june 2010, the epa issued final regulations under the clean air act for the control of greenhouse gases from new large stationary sources and major modifications to existing large stationary sources. certain of our operations, including the miami smelter, could be materially affected by these regulations, as these regulations and anticipated epa regulations covering large fossil fuel fired power plants may materially increase energy costs at our operations. several states have initiated action on their own or as part of regional organizations, such as the western climate initiative, to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our u.s. operations. the december 1997 kyoto protocol established greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that ratified the protocol. although the u.s. has not ratified the kyoto protocol, which expires in december 2012, the u.s. continues to participate in global climate summits that may lead to an agreement in the future. since 2006, we have participated in the carbon disclosure project, which is a voluntary initiative that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction efforts. in 2009, we formed a multi-departmental greenhouse gas task force to pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including evaluating potential reductions in emissions from our haul trucks. however, because of longer and steeper mining hauls as our open pits expand and deepen, and increases in use of electricity as we increase production capacity, we expect increases in our total greenhouse gas emissions. from a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to experience increased costs relating to our greenhouse gas emissions as a result of regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. in addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. we cannot predict the magnitude of any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. these may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. these effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. our operating, inactive and historical u.s. mining sites and facilities may be subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations. federal and state agencies have considered proposing new regulations to characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining operations. for example, the epa could promulgate rules to regulate technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (tenorm) and their impacts at mining operations. in addition, several states are promulgating groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards for radioactive materials, including uranium. radioactive materials can be associated with copper mineral deposits, including both our current and discontinued operations. accordingly, our copper operations may generate, concentrate or release radioactive materials that may subject our operations to new and increased regulation. the impact of such future regulation on our operating, closure, reclamation, and remediation costs is uncertain. 55 table of contents other risks if market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long-lived assets may be impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material. declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, could cause us to record lower of cost or market (lcm) inventory adjustments and could also result in a write-down of the carrying value of long-lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders' equity, but would have no effect on cash flows. during fourth-quarter 2008, we concluded that the then-current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment. as a result, we recorded significant impairment and lcm inventory charges. refer to item 6. "selected financial data" for a summary of these charges. unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to the litigation described in note 13 and in item 3. legal proceedings and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. if any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. achieving this objective may be difficult because of many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees to maintain our current business and support our future projects. a loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected. our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. in addition, cash at our international operations is subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. 56 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit removal of directors for cause only; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a summary of the estimated impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs. from time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange. however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. international risks our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries. we are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru, chile and the democratic republic of congo (drc). accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. such risks include: renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts, expropriation or nationalization of property, 42 table of contents changes in a foreign country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism, foreign exchange controls, and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. in october 2010, pt freeport indonesia received an assessment from the indonesian tax authorities for additional taxes of $106 million and interest of $52 million related to various audit exceptions for 2005. in november 2011, pt freeport indonesia received an assessment from the indonesian tax authorities for additional taxes of $22 million and interest of $10 million related to various audit exceptions for 2006. pt freeport indonesia has paid $109 million for these disputed tax assessments and filed objections to these assessments because it believes it has properly paid all taxes. pt freeport indonesia is working with the indonesian tax authorities to resolve these matters and expects to receive additional assessments from the indonesian tax authorities for their audit of its 2007 tax return. in december 2009, pt freeport indonesia was notified by the large taxpayer's office of the government of indonesia of its view that pt freeport indonesia is obligated to pay value added taxes on certain goods imported after the year 2000. the amount of such taxes and related penalties under this view would be significant. pt freeport indonesia believes that, pursuant to the terms of its cow, it is only required to pay value added taxes on these types of goods imported after december 30, 2009. pt freeport indonesia has not received a formal assessment and is working with the applicable government authorities to resolve this matter. sunat, the peruvian national tax authority, has assessed mining royalties on materials processed by the cerro verde concentrator which commenced operations in late 2006. these assessments cover the period october 2006 to december 2007 and the years 2008 and 2009. sunat has issued rulings denying cerro verde's protest of the assessments. cerro verde has appealed these decisions and currently has three cases pending before the peruvian tax tribunal. cerro verde is challenging these royalties because it believes its stability agreement provides an exemption for all minerals extracted from its mining concession, irrespective of the method used for processing those minerals. although we believe our interpretation of the stability agreement is correct, if cerro verde is ultimately found responsible for these assessments, it will also be liable for interest, which accrues at rates that range from approximately 7 to 18 percent based on the year accrued and the currency in which the amounts would be payable. at december 31, 2011 , the aggregate amount of the assessments, including interest and penalties, totaled $190 million. sunat may continue to assess mining royalties annually until this matter is resolved by the peruvian tax tribunal. because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia. indonesia has faced political and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. in particular, several separatist groups are opposing indonesian rule over the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. in response, indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective january 1, 2001. the manner in which those laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in indonesian politics. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a cow with the indonesian government. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the 43 table of contents environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. between july 2009 and february 2012, there were 32 shooting incidents in and around the grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which resulted in 15 fatalities and 56 injuries. victims included pt freeport indonesia employees, contractors, members of law enforcement and civilians. the identity of the perpetrators is unknown as is the motivation for the shootings. the investigation of these matters is continuing. we have taken precautionary measures, including using secured convoys on the road. the indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt freeport indonesia is working cooperatively with the government of indonesia to address security issues. during 2011, pt freeport indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. the strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. although a new labor agreement was reached in mid-december 2011, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at pt freeport indonesia. pt freeport indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory personnel who did not participate in the strike. on february 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily suspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. we are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion. large numbers of illegal miners have continued to operate along the river used to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in pt freeport indonesia's government-approved tailings management area. the illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. in 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the grasberg mine and mill in protest, and pt freeport indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our indonesian operations. if additional violence or other disruptive incidents occur, it could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time. we do not expect to mine all of our ore reserves in indonesia before the initial term of our cow expires. pt freeport indonesia is entitled to mine in indonesia under its cow with the government of indonesia. the initial term of the current cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current cow, and there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve the extensions. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 31 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2011, representing 37 percent of pt freeport indonesia's share of recoverable copper reserves and 49 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. in 2009, indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to pt freeport indonesia. in 2011 and 2010, the government of indonesia promulgated regulations under the 2009 mining law and certain provisions address existing contracts of work. the laws and regulations provide that contracts of work will continue to be honored until their expiration. however, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to existing contracts and may seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work, even though our cow provides for two 10-year extension periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. in february 2012, a new regulation was adopted that would require mining companies in indonesia to process all minerals domestically and possibly ban export of concentrates and other unrefined minerals. there are specific provisions included in pt freeport indonesia's existing cow that define its rights to 44 table of contents export product and the obligation to develop domestic smelting capacity if commercially feasible, or to contract with other domestic smelters on a market basis. in connection with the obligations under its cow, in 1995, pt freeport indonesia constructed the only copper smelter and refinery in indonesia, which is owned and operated by pt smelting. our cows in indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel. pt freeport indonesia's cow and other cows in which we have an interest were entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. our cows can be terminated by the government of indonesia if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. certain forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established under our cow. although our cow grants to pt freeport indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the cow, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions on pt freeport indonesia that could affect exploration and operating requirements. at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the government of indonesia prior to may 1998 ( i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt freeport indonesia's cow, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the cows will not be challenged for political or other reasons. pt freeport indonesia's cow and our other cows require that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. accordingly, if a dispute arises under the cows, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. indonesian government officials have periodically undertaken reviews regarding our compliance with indonesian environmental laws and regulations and the terms of the cows. in january 2012, the president of indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 mining law, and accordingly, to take steps to assess and negotiate size of work areas, government revenues, and domestic processing of minerals. the team includes 14 cabinet-level members representing 13 formal government institutions led by the coordinating minister of economy and the minister of energy and mineral resources, with the director general of mineral and coal as the secretary. the team's assignment runs through december 2013 and the group is expected to provide progress reports to the president every six months. we intend to continue to work cooperatively with the government of indonesia to complete this review and to seek extension of the cow beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the cow. the cow can only be modified by mutual agreement between pt freeport indonesia and the government of indonesia. any suspension of required activities under our cows requires the consent of the indonesian government. our cows permit us to suspend certain contractually required activities, including exploration, for a period of one year by making a written request to the indonesian government. these requests are subject to the approval of the indonesian government and are renewable annually. if we do not request a suspension or are denied a suspension, then we are required to continue our activities under the cow or potentially be declared in default. moreover, if a suspension continues for more than one year for reasons other than force majeure and the indonesian government has not approved such continuation, then the government would be entitled to declare a default under the cow. we previously suspended our field exploration activities outside of the block a area of pt freeport indonesia's cow because of safety and security issues and regulatory uncertainty relating to a possible conflict between our mining and exploration rights in certain forest areas and an indonesian forestry law enacted in 1999 prohibiting open-pit mining in forest preservation areas. in 2001, we requested and received from the government of indonesia, formal temporary suspensions of our obligations under the cows in all areas outside of block a. recent indonesian legislation permits open-pit mining in the block b area of pt freeport indonesia's cow, subject to certain requirements. following an assessment of these requirements and a review of security issues, in 2007 we resumed exploration activities in certain prospective cow areas outside of block a. 45 table of contents the tenke fungurume minerals district is located in the katanga province of the drc, and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in the drc. during 2009, we completed construction activities and commenced copper production at the tenke fungurume mine (the tenke mine) located in the drc. since gaining independence in 1960, the drc has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crisis. these factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. as part of a review of all mining contracts by the ministry of mines (the ministry) in the drc, in february 2008, we received notification that the ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of tenke fungurume mining s.a.r.l.'s (tfm) mining concessions. in october 2010, the government of the drc concluded its review of tfm's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. in connection with the review, tfm made several commitments that have been reflected in amendments to its mining contracts, which were signed by the parties in december 2010 (refer to note 14 for further discussion). in march 2011, the amendments were approved by a ministerial council, and a presidential decree, signed by the president and prime minister of the drc, was issued in april 2011. after receiving the required government approval of the modification to tfm's bylaws that reflect the agreement with the government of the drc, our effective ownership interest in the project will be reduced to 56.0 percent prospectively, compared to our current ownership interest of 57.75 percent. in november 2011, the drc held a general presidential election. on december 16, 2011, incumbent president joseph kabila was declared the winner of that election by the drc supreme court. there has been widespread international and local criticism of the election and episodes of protests, some of which were accompanied by acts of violence. in july 2009, tfm was advised that the minister of justice in the drc authorized an inquiry regarding the alleged misappropriation of public funds in connection with securing labor and immigration authorizations and the payment of associated fees for the tenke fungurume project. several government officials and three tfm employees were arrested. in october 2009, the three tfm employees were tried and acquitted. one government official, the head of immigration in the katanga province, was sentenced to five years imprisonment on charges of embezzlement. the office of the attorney general of the drc filed a notice of appeal of the judgment, and the matter is pending at the appellate court. in july 2009, tfm entered into a settlement agreement with drc tax authorities in connection with an administrative audit regarding the payment of fees for work permits and visas for its foreign workers and subcontractors, including short-term workers. pursuant to the agreement, which covers the period from january 2007 to the date of the settlement, tfm paid approximately $16 million in fees and penalties. the procedures associated with obtaining labor and immigration authorizations for short-term workers on a timely basis are not clearly established in the drc, and tfm continues to work proactively and cooperatively with the government authorities to establish approved procedures for doing so consistent with its mining convention and local law. in connection with this matter, we notified the u.s. government enforcement authorities about our internal investigation of the immigration work permit and visa matter and the associated criminal case. we have received and responded to requests from u.s. government authorities related to the matter and to other requests for information about our compliance program. political, economic and social risks that are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business include: political risks associated with the establishment and re-election of the present government; cancellation or renegotiation of mining contracts by the government; legal and regulatory uncertainties, governmental corruption and bribery; royalty and tax increases or claims by governmental entities, including retroactive claims; security risks due to the remote location in the southern drc and violence in the northeastern provinces of the drc; 46 table of contents risk of loss of property due to expropriation or nationalization of property; and risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. accordingly, the tenke fungurume minerals district and its future development projects may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our operating results, interrupt our operations or result in a loss of all or part of our investment in the drc. terrorist attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. in july 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the jw marriott and ritz-carlton hotels in jakarta, indonesia, that killed nine people and injured 53 others. two of our indonesian-based executives were injured in the incident. in july 2009, a small group of individuals created a disturbance on the road leading to our mining and milling operations at our grasberg minerals district and vandalized vehicles and small buildings. there were no injuries. for more information about a series of shooting incidents near our grasberg minerals district, refer to the risk factor because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia. in august 2002, three people were killed and 11 others were wounded in an ambush by a group of unidentified assailants on the road near tembagapura, the mining town where the majority of pt freeport indonesia's personnel reside. the assailants shot at several vehicles transporting international contract teachers from our school in tembagapura, their family members and other contractors to pt freeport indonesia. the u.s. federal bureau of investigation (fbi) investigated the incident, which resulted in the u.s. indictment of an alleged operational commander of the free papua movement/national freedom force. in january 2006, indonesian police, accompanied by fbi agents, arrested the alleged operational commander and 11 other papuans. in november 2006, verdicts and sentencing were announced for seven of those accused in the august 2002 shooting, including a life sentence for the confessed leader of the attack. in october 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in the indonesian province of bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. in august 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the jw marriott hotel in jakarta, indonesia. in september 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the australian embassy in jakarta. in october 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in bali. the same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. in november 2005, indonesian police raided a house in east java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but pt freeport indonesia's corporate office in jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the australian embassy. in addition to the bali, jw marriott hotel and australian embassy bombings, there have been anti-american demonstrations in certain sections of indonesia reportedly led by radical islamic activists. no assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence will not occur. if there were to be additional terrorist incidents or acts of violence, particularly at or near our operations, there could be no assurance that the occurrence of such events would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. operational risks our business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. these operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows, include the following: earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; 47 table of contents the occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines; problems associated with the construction and management of large impoundments containing tailings or other viscous or semi-solid materials, some of which also contain mineral and chemical contaminants, such as structural failures or leakages; interruption of energy supply; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; metallurgical and other processing problems; unanticipated ground and water conditions; adverse claims to water rights, adverse outcomes of pending water adjudications and shortages of water to which we have rights; adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government authorizations, approvals or permits; delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; the inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage. the failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both in and around our areas of operations, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in or curtailments of production. labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as further described in items 1 and 2. business and properties, we are party to labor agreements with various unions that represent employees at our operations. labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and the risk exists that labor agreements may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. we cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning those issues will be concluded successfully. our production and sales volumes could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations adversely affected by significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. during 2011, pt freeport indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. the strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. in mid-december 2011, the financial terms of a new two-year labor agreement for pt freeport indonesia were reached and the parties agreed that future wage negotiations would be based on living costs and the competitiveness of wages within indonesia. although a new labor agreement has been reached, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at pt freeport indonesia. pt freeport indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory personnel who did not participate in the strike. on february 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily 48 table of contents suspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. we are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion. in fourth-quarter 2011, there was an approximate two-month labor strike at cerro verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. the strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three-year agreement with the union was reached in late december 2011. if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies. our operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. our operations in north and south america are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. continuous production at our mines depends on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims. at our north america operations, our water rights give us only the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. in arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which, for over 30 years, the state of arizona has been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems that affect four of our operating mines (morenci, safford, sierrita and miami). the legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our bagdad mine. groundwater has historically been treated separately from surface water under arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. however, court decisions in recent years have concluded that if groundwater pumping produces or affects surface water, then such pumping requires surface water rights and is subject to the general stream adjudications. the effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water is currently the focus of one of those adjudications. in colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority of administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the climax molybdenum mine. in new mexico, our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated. water for our cerro verde mining operation comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. due to occasional drought conditions and the possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our current and planned cerro verde operations. cerro verde has been conducting water studies to assess opportunities for additional supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. in 2011, cerro verde reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar) and other local institutions to allow cerro verde to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant, should it proceed with plans for a large-scale concentrator expansion. once cerro verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement its existing water supplies to support the potential concentrator expansion. water for our el abra mining operation comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. we believe that el abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations, however, a change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our sulfide groundwater pumping, which is permitted through 2021. el abra is also conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the pacific ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing. water for our candelaria and ojos del salado mining operations is drawn from the copiap river aquifer. because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, candelaria is expanding its sources of water supply. during 2010, we completed construction of a pipeline to convey reclaimed water from a nearby water treatment facility to our 49 table of contents candelaria mine. we have also completed engineering and began construction for a desalination plant near the pacific ocean that will supply candelaria's longer term water needs. the plant is expected to be completed in early 2013. although we believe each operation has sufficient water rights and claims to cover current operational demands, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. the loss of some or all water rights for any of our mines, or physical shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or close mining operations and could prevent us from pursuing expansion opportunities. increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas. for the year 2011 , energy represented approximately 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. an inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. our consolidated copper production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, tires, explosives and diluents. the prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. the grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. in october 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. in december 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. the events caused us to alter our short-term mine sequencing plans; normal production activities resumed in second-quarter 2004. in march 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting pt freeport indonesia's mining facilities. three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. the material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. as a result of investigations by pt freeport indonesia and the indonesian department of energy and mineral resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. the existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded. in september 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our grasberg open pit. there were no injuries or property damage. the event caused a delay in our access to the high-grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future periods. in april 2011, two pt freeport indonesia employees died in an accident when a portion of the deep ore zone (doz) mine experienced an uncontrolled muck flow. the area was temporarily shut down during the investigation of the accident. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our africa mining operation involves additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the drc. the tenke fungurume minerals district is located in a remote area of the drc and is subject to additional challenges, including: 50 table of contents severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; challenges in obtaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria and cholera. additionally, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the tenke mine approximately 1,900 miles to ports in south africa. the tenke fungurume minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. the volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange age of 1934, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth or our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. in addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. a sustained decrease in commodity prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. these factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. there are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from mill and leach stockpiles. the quantity of copper delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. accordingly, the volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and copper recovered from stockpiles may be less than anticipated. we must continually replace reserves depleted by production. our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long-term viability. produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. exploration is highly speculative in nature. our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. as a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. there is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. 51 table of contents development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects. the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and estimated future prices of the relevant minerals. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can adversely affect project economics. moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems. therefore, it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion of our current development projects. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. these development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. it is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. it is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in capital expenditures. the development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the following: unanticipated geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic conditions; challenges related to hiring and training personnel required for underground mining activities; larger than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping mining methods; and unanticipated delays in the development of major access and supporting infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical components and longer than planned construction periods. some of these risks could result in delays to production startup and a loss or reduction in minable tons. there can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. environmental risks our domestic and international operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations, and compliance with environmental and regulatory requirements involves significant costs. our mining operations and exploration activities, both in the u.s. and elsewhere, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing exploration, development, production, occupational health, mine safety, toxic substances, waste disposal, protection and remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, and increased demand for remediation services leading to shortages of equipment, supplies and labor, as well as other factors. recent examples of these trends include epa's june 2010, promulgation of a new sulphur dioxide ambient air standard and epa's efforts to curtail the exemption of mining operations from waste management regulation under the federal resource conservation and recovery act. these and other such actions could have a significant impact on our operational compliance and closure costs. in addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc, formerly phelps dodge corporation), and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in mining, milling, and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial 52 table of contents companies understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean-up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address these remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2011 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects in the u.s. in 27 states. at december 31, 2011 , we had $1.5 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributed to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago; our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. refer to note 13 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. during 2011 , we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $387 million , compared with $372 million in 2010 and $289 million in 2009 . for 2012 , we expect to incur approximately $636 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities, and as actual spending occurs. an adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us. as described in note 13, we are a defendant in numerous, and in some cases significant, litigation matters involving alleged environmental contamination, alleged environmental toxic torts and complex interpretations of environmental regulations. an adverse ruling in one or more of those matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesian government, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the 53 table of contents footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals which, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. from time to time, certain indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. in connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the indonesian government, we committed to perform a one-time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. we completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the indonesian government in december 2002. we developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the indonesian government, academia and non-governmental organizations. the risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents. since 2005, pt freeport indonesia has participated in the government of indonesia's proper (program for pollution control, evaluation and rating) program. in november 2011, the indonesian ministry of environment announced the latest results of its proper environmental management audit, but did not provide a rating for pt freeport indonesia because of the strike and security conditions that existed during 2011. in 2010, the indonesia ministry of environment issued a blue rating acknowledging pt freeport indonesia's environmental management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in indonesia. mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. our u.s. operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined-land reclamation obligations. these requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. the laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. in general, our u.s. mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. it is uncertain how potential epa requirements for financial assurance will affect the timing of periodic closure cost reviews or the scope of closure activities. our international mines are also subject to various mine closure and mined-land reclamation laws. in july 2011, the chilean senate passed legislation relating to mine closure, which establishes new requirements for closure plans and becomes effective in november 2012. as a result, our chilean operations will be required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. we cannot predict at this time the costs of these closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required. at december 31, 2011 , we had asset retirement obligations (aros) of $921 million recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. aro cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in closure or financial assurance regulations, changes in engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, changes in mine plans, inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. refer to note 13 for further discussion. 54 table of contents regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets. many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, potentially contribute to climate change. in 2011, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were approximately 10 million metric tons, divided between direct (54 percent) and indirect (46 percent) emissions. most of our direct emissions are from fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. indirect emissions are generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. approximately 56 percent of our direct emissions are in indonesia, 28 percent in north america and 10 percent in south america. approximately 58 percent of our indirect emissions are in north america and 40 percent in south america. a number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory initiatives designed to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in the u.s. several of these regulatory changes are being challenged at both the federal and state levels. in september 2009, the epa issued final regulations requiring monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in specified circumstances. those regulations became effective in 2010. our miami smelter and el paso refinery have reported their emissions under this program. in june 2010, the epa issued final regulations under the clean air act for the control of greenhouse gases from new large stationary sources and major modifications to existing large stationary sources. certain of our operations, including the miami smelter, could be materially affected by these regulations, as these regulations and anticipated epa regulations covering large fossil fuel fired power plants may materially increase energy costs at our operations. several states have initiated action on their own or as part of regional organizations, such as the western climate initiative, to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our u.s. operations. the december 1997 kyoto protocol established greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that ratified the protocol. although the u.s. has not ratified the kyoto protocol, which expires in december 2012, the u.s. continues to participate in global climate summits that may lead to an agreement in the future. since 2006, we have participated in the carbon disclosure project, which is a voluntary initiative that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction efforts. in 2009, we formed a multi-departmental greenhouse gas task force to pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including evaluating potential reductions in emissions from our haul trucks. however, because of longer and steeper mining hauls as our open pits expand and deepen, and increases in use of electricity as we increase production capacity, we expect increases in our total greenhouse gas emissions. from a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to experience increased costs relating to our greenhouse gas emissions as a result of regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. in addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. we cannot predict the magnitude of any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. these may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. these effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. our operating, inactive and historical u.s. mining sites and facilities may be subject to future regulation of radioactive materials that are commonly associated with, or result from, our mining operations. federal and state agencies have considered proposing new regulations to characterize, regulate and remediate potential workplace exposures and environmental impacts of radioactive materials commonly associated with mining operations. for example, the epa could promulgate rules to regulate technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials (tenorm) and their impacts at mining operations. in addition, several states are promulgating groundwater quality compliance and remediation standards for radioactive materials, including uranium. radioactive materials can be associated with copper mineral deposits, including both our current and discontinued operations. accordingly, our copper operations may generate, concentrate or release radioactive materials that may subject our operations to new and increased regulation. the impact of such future regulation on our operating, closure, reclamation, and remediation costs is uncertain. 55 table of contents other risks if market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long-lived assets may be impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material. declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, could cause us to record lower of cost or market (lcm) inventory adjustments and could also result in a write-down of the carrying value of long-lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders' equity, but would have no effect on cash flows. during fourth-quarter 2008, we concluded that the then-current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment. as a result, we recorded significant impairment and lcm inventory charges. refer to item 6. "selected financial data" for a summary of these charges. unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to the litigation described in note 13 and in item 3. legal proceedings and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. if any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. achieving this objective may be difficult because of many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees to maintain our current business and support our future projects. a loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected. our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. in addition, cash at our international operations is subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. 56 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit removal of directors for cause only; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. not applicable. item 3. legal proceedings. we are involved in numerous legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues arising from legacy operations conducted over the years by freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc - formerly phelps dodge corporation) and its affiliates. we are also involved periodically in other reviews, investigations and proceedings by government agencies, some of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. management does not believe, based on currently available information, that the outcome of any legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition; although individual outcomes could be material to our operating results for a particular period, depending on the nature and magnitude of the outcome and the operating results for the period. below is a discussion of our water rights legal proceedings. refer to note 13 for discussion of our other legal proceedings. water rights our operations in the western united states (u.s.) require water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. continuous operation of our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. in the arid western u.s., water rights are often contested, and disputes over water rights are generally time-consuming, expensive and not necessarily dispositive unless they resolve actual and potential claims. the loss of a water right or continued use of a currently available water supply, in whole or in part, could have a material adverse effect on our mining operations. each western state has its own set of complex laws governing the withdrawal and use of groundwater and surface water, which are the sources of water supply for our operations. in arizona, a landowner has the right to pump 57 table of contents groundwater beneath his property and put it to reasonable and beneficial use. surface water in arizona is subject to the doctrine of prior appropriation (first in time, first in right) and permits a holder of water rights to use surface water for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. in arizona, potential claims are difficult to resolve, because it is difficult to identify and join all potentially interested parties in a single legal proceeding. global efforts to settle contested water rights in an entire watershed, which are referred to as adjudications, are complex, multi-party judicial proceedings that can take decades to complete, but are designed to resolve all actual and potential claims. two water rights adjudications have been initiated in arizona in order to quantify and prioritize all surface water claims in two of the state's river systems that could impact four of our operating mines (morenci, safford, sierrita and miami). any precedents set in these legal proceedings may also affect our bagdad mine. these adjudications have been under way for many years, and we cannot predict when they will be concluded or how the many conflicting claims will be resolved. in re the general adjudication of all rights to use water in the little colorado water system and sources , apache county, superior court, no. 6417, filed on or about february 17, 1978. the principal parties, in addition to us, include: the state of arizona; the salt river project; the arizona public service company; the navajo nation, the hopi indian tribe; the san juan southern paiute tribe; and the u.s. on behalf of those tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the white mountain apache tribe. in re the general adjudication of all rights to use water in the gila river system and sources , maricopa county, superior court, cause nos. w-1 (salt), w-2 (verde), w-3 (upper gila), and w-4 (san pedro). this case was originally initiated in 1974 with the filing of a petition with the arizona state land department and was consolidated and transferred to the maricopa county superior court in 1981. the principal parties, in addition to us, include: the state of arizona; the gila valley irrigation district; the franklin irrigation district; the san carlos irrigation and drainage district; the salt river project; the san carlos apache tribe; the gila river indian community (gric); and the u.s. on behalf of those tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the white mountain apache tribe, the fort mcdowell mohave-apache indian community, the salt river pima-maricopa indian community, and the payson community of yavapai apache indians. the last significant decision of the maricopa county superior court in the gila river adjudication was issued in 2005 and directed the arizona department of water resources (adwr) to prepare detailed recommendations regarding the delineation of the sub-flow zone of the san pedro river basin, a tributary of the gila river, which is the subsurface area adjacent to the river where the court may find that it is connected to the surface water such that pumping may reduce surface flows. although we have minimal interests in the san pedro river basin, a decision that re-characterizes groundwater in that basin as surface water will set a precedent for other river systems in arizona that could have material implications for many commercial, industrial, municipal and agricultural users of groundwater, including our arizona operations. adwr's recommendations were objected to by numerous parties on both sides of the issue, and a three-day hearing was held in late january 2012, at which various parties provided testimony and oral argument regarding the strengths and weaknesses of adwr's technical approach to characterizing underground flows as groundwater or surface water. given the legal and technical complexity of this adjudication, its long history, and its long-term legal and political implications, it is difficult to predict the timing or the outcome of this issue or of the overall adjudication. prior to january 1, 1983, various indian tribes filed suits in the u.s. district court in arizona claiming superior rights to water being used by many other water users, including us, and claiming damages for prior use in derogation of their allegedly superior rights. these federal proceedings have been stayed pending the arizona superior court adjudications. in 1998, we and several other parties entered into a water rights settlement agreement with gric, one of the largest claimants in the adjudication, that was later included in a comprehensive water rights settlement under the arizona water settlements act of 2004. the gric settlement is subject to contingencies, and the comprehensive settlement has been challenged by other parties. if we are unable to resolve the contingencies in the gric settlement and defeat the third-party challenges, our water rights in the gila river watershed could be diminished, and our operations at morenci, safford, sierrita and miami could be adversely affected. united states v. gila valley irrigation district , united states district court, district of arizona, was initiated in 1925 by the u.s. to settle conflicting claims to water rights in portions of the gila river watershed. a decree settling the claims of various parties was entered in 1935, after we were dismissed from the case without prejudice. in 1988, the gric intervened, challenging uses of water in the gila river watershed, which may affect our ability to divert 58 table of contents water from eagle creek, chase creek or the san francisco river for operation of our morenci mine, pursuant to decreed rights and an agreement between us and the gila valley irrigation district. our morenci operations also purchased farm lands with water rights in 1997, 1998 and 2008 that could be affected by the outcome of this proceeding. impairment of our water claims in the gila river watershed could adversely affect the operations of our morenci and safford mines. item 4. mine safety disclosures. the safety and health of all employees is our highest priority. management believes that safety and health considerations are integral to, and compatible with, all other functions in the organization and that proper safety and health management will enhance production and reduce costs. our approach towards the health and safety of our workforce is to continuously improve performance through implementing robust management systems and providing adequate training, safety incentive and occupational health programs. our objective is zero work place injuries and occupational illnesses. we measure progress toward achieving our objective against regularly established benchmarks, including measuring company-wide total recordable incident rates (trir). during 2011, our trir (including contractors) was 0.61 per 200,000 man-hours worked, compared to the preliminary metal mining sector industry average reported by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) for 2011 of 2.29 per 200,000 man-hours worked. our trir (including contractors) was 0.65 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2010 and 0.74 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2009, compared to msha's metal mining sector industry average of 2.53 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2010 and 2.61 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2009. refer to exhibit 95.1 for mine safety disclosures required in accordance with section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. executive officers of the registrant. certain information as of february 15, 2012 , about our executive officers is set forth in the following table and accompanying text: name age position or office james r. moffett 73 chairman of the board richard c. adkerson 65 director, president and chief executive officer michael j. arnold 59 executive vice president and chief administrative officer kathleen l. quirk 48 executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer james r. moffett has served as chairman of the board since may 1992. mr. moffett previously served as the chief executive officer from july 1995 until december 2003. he has also served as co-chairman of the board of mcmoran exploration co. (mmr) since september 1998, and president and chief executive officer since may 2010. richard c. adkerson has served as president since january 2008 and also from april 1997 to march 2007, chief executive officer since december 2003 and a director since october 2006. mr. adkerson previously served as chief financial officer from october 2000 to december 2003. mr. adkerson has also served as co-chairman of the board of mmr since september 1998. michael j. arnold has served as executive vice president since march 2007 and chief administrative officer since december 2003. kathleen l. quirk has served as executive vice president since march 2007, chief financial officer since december 2003 and treasurer since february 2000. ms. quirk previously served as senior vice president from december 2003 to march 2007. ms. quirk has also served as the senior vice president of mmr since april 2002 and as treasurer since january 2000. 59 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. unregistered sales of equity securities none. common stock our common shares trade on the new york stock exchange (nyse) under the symbol fcx. the fcx share price is reported daily in the financial press under fmcg in most listings of nyse securities. the table below shows the nyse composite tape common share price ranges during 2011 and 2010: 2011 2010 high low high low first quarter $61.35 $46.20 $45.28 $33.02 second quarter 58.75 46.06 44.15 29.12 third quarter 56.78 30.37 43.96 28.36 fourth quarter 43.50 28.85 60.39 43.19 at february 15, 2012 , there were 16,432 holders of record of our common stock. common stock dividends after suspending dividends in late 2008, the board of directors (the board) reinstated a cash dividend on our common stock in october 2009 at an annual rate of $0.30 per share ($0.075 per share quarterly). the board authorized increases in the cash dividend to an annual rate of $0.60 per share ($0.15 per share quarterly) in april 2010, and $1.00 per share ($0.25 per share quarterly) in october 2010. the board also authorized supplemental common stock dividends of $0.50 per share paid in december 2010 and june 2011. below is a summary of common stock cash dividends paid in 2011 and 2010: 2011 per share amount record date payment date first quarter $0.25 01/15/2011 02/01/2011 second quarter 0.25 04/15/2011 05/01/2011 supplemental dividend 0.50 05/15/2011 06/01/2011 third quarter 0.25 07/15/2011 08/01/2011 fourth quarter 0.25 10/15/2011 11/01/2011 2010 per share amount record date payment date first quarter $0.075 01/15/2010 02/01/2010 second quarter 0.075 04/15/2010 05/01/2010 third quarter 0.15 07/15/2010 08/01/2010 fourth quarter 0.15 10/15/2010 11/01/2010 supplemental dividend 0.50 12/20/2010 12/30/2010 in february 2012, the board authorized an increase in the cash dividend on our common stock to an annual rate of $1.25 per share ($0.3125 per share quarterly). dividends are paid quarterly as declared by the board with the initial quarterly dividend of $0.3125 per share expected to be paid in may 2012. the declaration of dividends is at the discretion of our board and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the board. 60 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities the following table sets forth information with respect to shares of fcx common stock purchased by us during the three months ended december 31, 2011: period (a) total number of shares purchased a (b) average price paid per share (c) total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs b (d) maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs b october 1-31, 2011 $ 23,685,500 november 1-30, 2011 23,685,500 december 1-31, 2011 23,685,500 total 23,685,500 a. consists of shares repurchased under fcx's applicable stock incentive plans to satisfy tax obligations on restricted stock awards and to cover the cost of option exercises. b. on july 21, 2008, the board of directors approved an increase in our open-market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. the program does not have an expiration date. 61 table of contents item 6. selected financial data. freeport-mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. selected financial and operating data years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 a fcx consolidated financial data (in millions, except per share amounts) revenues $ 20,880 $ 18,982 $ 15,040 $ 17,796 $ 16,939 b operating income (loss) 9,140 c 9,068 6,503 d,e (12,710 ) d,e,f 6,555 b,f income (loss) from continuing operations 5,747 5,544 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,733 net income (loss) 5,747 5,544 3,534 (10,450 ) 3,779 net income (loss) attributable to fcx common stockholders 4,560 c,g,h 4,273 h 2,527 d,e,h (11,341 ) d,e,f,h 2,769 b,f,h basic net income (loss) per share attributable to fcx common stockholders: continuing operations $ 4.81 $ 4.67 $ 3.05 $ (14.86 ) $ 4.01 discontinued operations 0.05 basic net income (loss) $ 4.81 $ 4.67 $ 3.05 $ (14.86 ) $ 4.06 basic weighted-average common shares outstanding 947 915 829 763 682 diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to fcx common stockholders: continuing operations $ 4.78 $ 4.57 $ 2.93 $ (14.86 ) $ 3.70 discontinued operations 0.05 diluted net income (loss) $ 4.78 c,g,h $ 4.57 h $ 2.93 d,e,h $ (14.86 ) d,e,f,h $ 3.75 b,f,h diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding 955 949 938 763 794 dividends declared per share of common stock $ 1.50 $ 1.125 $ 0.075 $ 0.6875 $ 0.6875 at december 31: cash and cash equivalents $ 4,822 $ 3,738 $ 2,656 $ 872 $ 1,626 property, plant, equipment and development costs, net 18,449 16,785 16,195 16,002 25,715 goodwill 6,105 total assets 32,070 29,386 25,996 23,353 40,661 total debt, including current portion 3,537 4,755 6,346 7,351 7,211 total fcx stockholders' equity 15,642 12,504 9,119 5,773 18,234 the selected consolidated financial data shown above is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. these historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that you can expect for any future period. you should read this data in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in this annual report. a. includes the results of freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc, formerly phelps dodge corporation) beginning march 20, 2007. b. includes charges totaling $175 million ($106 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.13 per share) for mark-to-market accounting adjustments on the 2007 copper price protection program assumed in the acquisition of fmc. c. includes charges totaling $116 million ( $50 million to net income attributable to common stock, or $0.05 per share) primarily associated with bonuses for new labor agreements and other employee costs at pt freeport indonesia, cerro verde and el abra. d. includes charges totaling $23 million ( $18 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.02 per share) associated with restructuring charges in 2009 and $17.0 billion ($12.7 billion to net loss attributable to common stockholders or $16.60 per share) associated with impairment and restructuring charges in 2008. e. includes charges for lower of cost or market inventory adjustments totaling $19 million ( $15 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.02 per share) in 2009 and $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to common stockholders or $0.63 per share) in 2008. f. includes purchase accounting impacts related to the acquisition of fmc totaling $1.0 billion ($622 million to net loss attributable to common stockholders or $0.82 per share) in 2008 and $1.3 billion ($793 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $1.00 per share) in 2007. g. includes additional taxes of $49 million ( $0.05 per share) associated with peru's new mining tax and royalty regime. h. includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversion of debt totaling $60 million ( $0.06 per share) in 2011, $71 million ( $0.07 per share) in 2010, $43 million ( $0.04 per share) in 2009, $5 million ( $0.01 per share) in 2008, and $132 million ($0.17 per share) in 2007; 2008 also includes charges totaling $22 million ($0.03 per share) associated with privately negotiated transactions to induce conversion of a portion of our 5 % convertible perpetual preferred stock into fcx common stock. 62 table of contents freeport-mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. selected financial and operating data (continued) for comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the year ended december 31, 2007, combines our historical data with fmc pre-acquisition data. as the pre-acquisition operating data represent the results of these operations under fmc management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under fcx management or of future operating results. years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 a fcx consolidated mining operating data copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 3,691 3,908 4,103 4,030 3,884 production (thousands of metric tons) 1,674 1,773 1,861 1,828 1,762 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 3,698 3,896 4,111 4,066 3,862 sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 1,678 1,767 1,865 1,844 1,752 average realized price per pound $ 3.86 $ 3.59 $ 2.60 $ 2.69 $ 3.22 b gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 1,383 1,886 2,664 1,291 2,329 sales, excluding purchases 1,378 1,863 2,639 1,314 2,320 average realized price per ounce $ 1,583 $ 1,271 $ 993 $ 861 $ 682 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production 83 72 54 73 70 sales, excluding purchases 79 67 58 71 69 average realized price per pound $ 16.98 $ 16.47 $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 north america copper mines operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 1,258 1,067 1,147 1,430 1,320 production (thousands of metric tons) 571 484 520 649 599 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 1,247 1,085 1,187 1,434 1,332 sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 566 492 538 650 604 average realized price per pound $ 3.99 $ 3.42 $ 2.38 $ 3.07 $ 3.10 b molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production 35 25 25 30 30 100% operating data solution extraction/electrowinning (sx/ew) operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 888,300 648,800 589,400 1,095,200 798,200 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.24 0.24 0.29 0.22 0.23 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 801 746 859 943 940 mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 222,800 189,200 169,900 249,600 223,800 average ore grade (percent): copper 0.38 0.32 0.33 0.40 0.35 molybdenum 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 copper recovery rate (percent) 83.1 83.0 86.0 82.9 84.5 production (millions of recoverable pounds): copper 549 398 364 599 501 molybdenum 35 25 25 30 30 south america mining copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 1,306 1,354 1,390 1,506 1,413 production (thousands of metric tons) 592 614 631 683 641 sales (millions of pounds) 1,322 1,335 1,394 1,521 1,399 sales (thousands of metric tons) 600 606 632 690 635 average realized price per pound $ 3.77 $ 3.68 $ 2.70 $ 2.57 $ 3.25 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 101 93 92 114 116 sales 101 93 90 116 114 average realized price per ounce $ 1,580 $ 1,263 $ 982 $ 853 $ 683 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production 10 7 2 3 1 sx/ew operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 245,200 268,800 258,200 279,700 289,100 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.50 0.41 0.45 0.45 0.43 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 439 504 565 560 569 63 table of contents years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 a south america mining (continued) mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 189,200 188,800 181,300 181,400 167,900 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.66 0.65 0.66 0.75 0.74 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.12 0.10 0.10 0.13 0.13 molybdenum (percent) 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 copper recovery rate (percent) 89.6 90.0 88.9 89.2 87.1 production (recoverable): copper (millions of pounds) 867 850 825 946 844 gold (thousands of ounces) 101 93 92 114 116 molybdenum (millions of pounds) 10 7 2 3 1 indonesia mining operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 846 1,222 1,412 1,094 1,151 production (thousands of metric tons) 384 554 640 496 522 sales (millions of pounds) 846 1,214 1,400 1,111 1,131 sales (thousands of metric tons) 384 551 635 504 513 average realized price per pound $ 3.85 $ 3.69 $ 2.65 $ 2.36 $ 3.32 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 1,272 1,786 2,568 1,163 2,198 sales 1,270 1,765 2,543 1,182 2,185 average realized price per ounce $ 1,583 $ 1,271 $ 994 $ 861 $ 681 100% operating data ore milled (metric tons per day) 166,100 230,200 238,300 192,900 212,600 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.79 0.85 0.98 0.83 0.82 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.93 0.90 1.30 0.66 1.24 recovery rates (percent): copper 88.3 88.9 90.6 90.1 90.5 gold 81.2 81.7 83.7 79.9 86.2 production (recoverable): copper (millions of pounds) 882 1,330 1,641 1,109 1,211 gold (thousands of ounces) 1,444 1,964 2,984 1,163 2,608 africa mining c copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 281 265 154 n/a n/a production (thousands of metric tons) 127 120 70 n/a n/a sales (millions of pounds) 283 262 130 n/a n/a sales (thousands of metric tons) 128 119 59 n/a n/a average realized price per pound $ 3.74 $ 3.45 $ 2.85 n/a n/a cobalt (millions of contained pounds) production 25 20 n/a n/a n/a sales 25 20 n/a n/a n/a average realized price per pound $ 9.99 $ 10.95 n/a n/a n/a ore milled (metric tons per day) 11,100 10,300 7,300 n/a n/a average ore grade (percent): copper 3.41 3.51 3.69 n/a n/a cobalt 0.40 0.40 n/a n/a n/a copper recovery rate (percent) 92.5 91.4 92.1 n/a n/a molybdenum operations molybdenum sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) d 79 67 58 71 69 average realized price per pound $ 16.98 $ 16.47 $ 12.36 $ 30.55 $ 25.87 henderson molybdenum mine ore milled (metric tons per day) 22,300 22,900 14,900 24,100 24,000 average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.24 0.25 0.25 0.23 0.23 molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 38 40 27 40 39 a. for comparative purposes, operating data for the year ended december 31, 2007 combines our historical data with fmc pre-acquisition data. as the pre-acquisition data represents the results of these operations under fmc management, such combined data is not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under fcx management or of future operating results. b. before charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs, amounts were $3.27 per pound (fcx consolidated) and $3.25 per pound (north america copper mines). c. results for 2009 represent mining operations that began production in march 2009. d. includes sales of molybdenum produced at our north and south america copper mines. 64 table of contents ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculation, earnings consist of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, equity in affiliated companies' net earnings, cumulative effect of accounting changes and fixed charges. fixed charges include interest and that portion of rent deemed representative of interest. for the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends calculation, we assumed that our preferred stock dividend requirements were equal to the pre-tax earnings that would be required to cover those dividend requirements. we computed those pre-tax earnings using the effective tax rate for each year. our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was as follows for the years presented: years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 ratio of earnings to fixed charges 20.7x 16.3x 9.3x - a 9.9x ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends 20.7x 13.9x 6.1x - b 6.6x a. as a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. we would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.4 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. b. as a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. we would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.8 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. 65 table of contents items 7. and 7a. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. overview in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, we, us and our refer to freeport-mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. (fcx) and its consolidated subsidiaries. the results of operations reported and summarized below are not necessarily indicative of future operating results (refer to cautionary statement for further discussion). references to notes are notes included in our notes to consolidated financial statements. throughout management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk all references to earnings or losses per share are on a diluted basis, unless otherwise noted. we are one of the world's largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. our portfolio of assets includes the grasberg minerals district in indonesia, significant mining operations in north and south america, and the tenke fungurume (tenke) minerals district in the democratic republic of congo (drc). the grasberg minerals district contains the largest single recoverable copper reserve and the largest single gold reserve of any mine in the world based on the latest available reserve data provided by third-party industry consultants. we also operate atlantic copper, our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in spain. we have significant reserves, resources and future development opportunities within our portfolio of assets. at december 31, 2011 , our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves totaled 119.7 billion pounds of copper, 33.9 million ounces of gold and 3.42 billion pounds of molybdenum, which were determined using long-term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $750 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. we have added significant reserves in recent years and drilling activities conducted at our existing mines during 2011 indicated the potential for significant reserve additions in future periods. refer to critical accounting estimates mineral reserves for further discussion. during 2011 , 34 percent of our consolidated copper production was from north america, 35 percent from south america, 23 percent from indonesia and 8 percent from africa. more specifically, copper production from the grasberg, morenci and cerro verde mines totaled 55 percent of our consolidated copper production in 2011. we also produce gold, primarily at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia, which accounted for 92 percent of our consolidated gold production for 2011 . for 2011 , 46 percent of our consolidated molybdenum production was from the henderson molybdenum mine, 42 percent was produced at certain of our north america copper mines and 12 percent was produced at our cerro verde mine. refer to operations for further discussion of our mining operations. we have increased production at several of our copper mines and are undertaking major development projects, including the development of the underground ore bodies at grasberg, an expansion at tenke fungurume and a concentrator expansion at cerro verde. studies are also under way to evaluate a major mill project at el abra and various mill projects to process significant sulfide ore in north america. the advancement of these studies is designed to position us to invest in production growth within our existing portfolio of assets. refer to operations for further discussion of our current operating and development activities. our results for the year 2011 , compared with 2010 , primarily reflected higher realized copper and gold prices, partially offset by lower copper and gold sales volumes (refer to consolidated results for further discussion of our consolidated financial results for the years ended december 31, 2011 , 2010 and 2009 ). our 2011 results also reflect the impact of labor disruptions at pt freeport indonesia. pt freeport indonesia's milling operations were temporarily suspended during fourth-quarter 2011 because of damage to concentrate and fuel pipelines resulting from civil unrest that occurred during the strike by union workers. the financial terms of a new two-year labor agreement for pt freeport indonesia's workers were reached in mid-december 2011. repairs to the damaged pipelines are substantially complete, and pt freeport indonesia has begun ramping up production. pt freeport indonesia is working cooperatively with the government of indonesia to address security issues. maintaining security is a requirement of returning to normal operations. although a new labor agreement has been reached, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at pt freeport indonesia. pt freeport indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory 66 table of contents personnel who did not participate in the strike. on february 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily suspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. we are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. the work interruptions and temporary suspension of operations at pt freeport indonesia may impact our ability to achieve projected sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flows in 2012. pt freeport indonesia's projected sales volumes of 930 million pounds of copper and 1.1 million ounces of gold for the year 2012 (which includes 210 million pounds of copper and 400 thousand ounces of gold in first-quarter 2012) are under review. refer to "consolidated results" and "operations - indonesia mining" for further discussion of the impacts from the labor disruptions. at december 31, 2011 , we had $4.8 billion in consolidated cash and $3.5 billion in long-term debt. during 2011, we repaid $1.2 billion in debt, including the april 2011 redemption of $1.1 billion of outstanding 8.25% senior notes. in february 2012, we sold $3.0 billion in senior notes in three tranches and announced our intent to redeem the remaining $3.0 billion of our 8.375% senior notes. we expect to record a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $168 million ( $147 million to net income attributable to common stockholders) in first-quarter 2012 in connection with the redemption of our 8.375% senior notes. refer to "capital resources and liquidity - financing activities" and to notes 9 and 20 for further discussion of these transactions. during 2011 we paid common stock dividends totaling $1.4 billion , which included $474 million in supplemental dividends. in february 2012, our board of directors authorized an increase in the cash dividend on our common stock to an annual rate of $1.25 per share ($0.3125 per share quarterly). refer to "capital resources and liquidity - financing activities" for further discussion. at current copper prices we expect to produce substantial operating cash flows in 2012 , and plan to focus on using our cash to invest in our development projects and return cash to shareholders through common stock dividends and/or share repurchases. outlook we view the long-term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the world's economy. we will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. our financial results can vary as a result of fluctuations in market prices for copper, gold and molybdenum. world market prices for these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. because we cannot control the price of our products, the key measures that management focuses on in operating our business are sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flow. discussion of the outlook for each of these measures follows. sales volumes. following are our projected consolidated sales volumes for 2012 and actual consolidated sales volumes for 2011 : 2012 2011 (projected) (actual) copper (millions of recoverable pounds): north america copper mines 1,320 1,247 south america mining 1,275 1,322 indonesia mining 930 846 africa mining 290 283 3,815 3,698 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces): indonesia mining 1,135 1,270 south america mining 100 101 north america copper mines n/a a 7 1,235 1,378 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) b 80 79 a. gold sales volumes are not projected for our north america copper mines. b. includes sales of molybdenum produced at our north and south america copper mines. 67 table of contents our projected 2012 copper sales volumes are expected to be higher, compared with 2011 , primarily because of higher production from north america and indonesia, partly offset by slightly lower production in south america. gold sales in 2012 are projected to be lower than 2011 sales because of mine sequencing in indonesia. molybdenum sales in 2012 are expected to be similar to 2011, with higher production from primary molybdenum mines, offset by lower production from our north and south america copper mines. the achievement of projected 2012 sales volumes depends on a number of factors, including the timing of restoring normal operations at grasberg following the extended disruption in 2011 and because of recent work interruptions and the temporary suspension of operations, achievement of targeted mining rates, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors. unit net cash costs. assuming average prices of $1,600 per ounce of gold and $13 per pound of molybdenum for 2012 , and achievement of current projected 2012 sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate our consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our copper mining operations would average approximately $1.38 per pound in 2012 . consolidated unit net cash costs in 2012 are expected to be higher than consolidated unit net cash costs of $1.01 per pound of copper in 2011 because of higher labor, energy and other inputs, and lower by-product credits, partly offset by higher copper volumes. quarterly unit net cash costs vary with fluctuations in sales volumes and average realized prices for gold and molybdenum.the impact of price changes in 2012 on consolidated unit net cash costs would approximate $0.015 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $0.02 for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. refer to consolidated results production and delivery costs for further discussion of consolidated production and delivery costs. operating cash flows. our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes and other working capital changes and other factors. based on projected consolidated sales volumes and unit net cash costs for 2012 , and assuming average prices of $3.50 per pound of copper, $1,600 per ounce of gold and $13 per pound of molybdenum in 2012 , consolidated operating cash flows are estimated to approximate $4.7 billion in 2012 , net of an estimated $0.8 billion for working capital requirements. projected operating cash flows for the year 2012 also reflect estimated taxes of $2.1 billion (refer to consolidated results provision for income taxes for discussion of our projected annual consolidated effective tax rate for 2012 ). the impact of price changes in 2012 on operating cash flows would approximate $300 million for each $0.10 per pound change in the average price of copper, $50 million for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $90 million for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. 68 table of contents copper, gold and molybdenum markets world prices for copper, gold and molybdenum can fluctuate significantly. during the period from january 2002 through january 2012, the london metal exchange (lme) spot copper price varied from a low of $0.64 per pound in 2002 to a record high of $4.60 per pound in february 2011; the london gold price fluctuated from a low of $278 per ounce in 2002 to a record high of $1,895 per ounce in september 2011; and the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price ranged from a low of $2.40 per pound in 2002 to a high of $39.25 per pound in 2005. copper, gold and molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control as described further in our risk factors contained in part i, item 1a of our form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2011 . * excludes shanghai stocks, producer, consumer and merchant stocks. this graph presents lme spot copper prices and reported stocks of copper at the lme and the new york mercantile exchange (comex) from january 2002 through january 2012. from 2006 through most of 2008, limited supplies, combined with growing demand from china and other emerging economies, resulted in high copper prices and low levels of inventories. in late 2008, slowing consumption, turmoil in the u.s. financial markets and concerns about the global economy led to a sharp decline in copper prices, which reached a low of $1.26 per pound in december 2008. copper prices have since improved from the 2008 lows, attributable to a combination of strong demand from emerging markets and limitations on available supply. during 2011 , lme spot copper prices ranged from $3.08 per pound to $4.60 per pound, averaged $4.00 per pound and closed at $3.43 per pound on december 30, 2011 . combined lme and comex inventories rose somewhat in 2011, compared to year-end 2010 levels, primarily as a result of reduced chinese imports. we believe the underlying fundamentals of the copper business remain positive, supported by the significant role of copper in the global economy, limited supplies from existing mines and the absence of significant new development projects. future copper prices are expected to be volatile and are likely to be influenced by demand from china (which represented approximately 40 percent of global consumption in 2011), economic activity in the u.s. and other industrialized countries, the timing of the development of new supplies of copper and production levels of mines and copper smelters. the lme spot copper price closed at $3.81 per pound on february 15, 2012 . 69 table of contents this graph presents london pm gold prices from january 2002 through january 2012. during 2011 , gold prices were volatile ranging from $1,319 per ounce to a record high of $1,895 per ounce, averaging $1,572 per ounce and closing at $1,575 per ounce on december 30, 2011 . we believe the outlook for gold remains positive, supported by continued macroeconomic uncertainty and elevated sovereign debt levels. gold prices closed at $1,726 per ounce on february 15, 2012 . this graph presents the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price from january 2002 through january 2012. in late 2008, molybdenum prices declined significantly as a result of the financial market turmoil and a decline in demand; however, molybdenum prices have since increased, which we believe is supported by 70 table of contents improved economic conditions and resulting demand increases. during 2011 , the weekly average price of molybdenum ranged from $12.70 per pound to $17.88 per pound, averaged $15.49 per pound and was $13.35 per pound on december 30, 2011 . the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price was $14.50 per pound on february 15, 2012 . critical accounting estimates management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) in the united states (u.s.). the preparation of these statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. we base these estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we consider reasonable under the circumstances; however, reported results could differ from those based on the current estimates under different assumptions or conditions. the areas requiring the use of management's estimates are also discussed in note 1 under the subheading use of estimates. management has reviewed the following discussion of its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board of directors. mineral reserves . recoverable proven and probable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates. estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth of our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. in addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees. a majority of these estimates have been reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. at december 31, 2011 , our consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves included 119.7 billion pounds of copper, 33.9 million ounces of gold and 3.42 billion pounds of molybdenum, which were determined using long- term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $750 per ounce for gold and $10.00 per pound for molybdenum. the following table summarizes changes in our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper, gold and molybdenum reserves during 2011 and 2010: copper (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) consolidated reserves at december 31, 2009 104.2 37.2 2.59 net additions/revisions 20.2 0.2 0.87 production (3.9 ) (1.9) (0.07) consolidated reserves at december 31, 2010 120.5 35.5 3.39 net additions/revisions 2.9 (0.2) 0.11 production (3.7 ) (1.4) (0.08) consolidated reserves at december 31, 2011 119.7 33.9 3.42 refer to note 18 for further information regarding estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves. as discussed in note 1 , we depreciate our life-of-mine mining and milling assets and values assigned to proven and probable reserves using the unit-of-production (uop) method based on our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves, and also have other assets that are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period and additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations, including changes to prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values. based on projected copper sales volumes for 2012 , if estimated copper reserves at our mines were 10 percent higher at december 31, 2011 , we estimate that our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for 2012 would decrease by $38 million ($20 million to net income attributable to common stockholders), and a 10 percent decrease in copper reserves would increase depreciation, depletion and amortization expense by $46 million ($24 million to net income attributable to common stockholders). we perform 71 table of contents annual assessments of our existing assets in connection with the review of mine operating and development plans. if it is determined that assigned asset lives do not reflect the expected remaining period of benefit, any change could affect prospective depreciation rates. as discussed below and in note 1 , we review and evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and changes to our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves could have an impact on our assessment of asset recoverability. recoverable copper . we record, as inventory, applicable costs for copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles that are expected to be processed in the future based on proven processing technologies. mill and leach stockpiles are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are stated at the lower of cost or market. accounting for recoverable copper from mill and leach stockpiles represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, which requires management to employ reasonable estimation methods and (ii) recovery rates from leach stockpiles can vary significantly. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. at december 31, 2011 , estimated consolidated recoverable copper was 3.1 billion pounds in leach stockpiles (with a carrying value of $2.4 billion ) and 1.3 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (with a carrying value of $604 million ). environmental obligations . our mining, exploration, production and historical operating activities are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, and compliance with those laws requires significant expenditures. environmental expenditures for closed facilities and closed portions of operating facilities are expensed or capitalized depending upon their future economic benefits. the guidance provided by u.s. gaap requires that liabilities for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. refer to note 1 for discussion of our accounting policy for environmental expenditures. accounting for environmental obligations represents a critical accounting estimate because changes to environmental laws and regulations and/or circumstances affecting our operations could result in significant changes to our estimates, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. we review changes in facts and circumstances associated with our environmental and reclamation obligations at least quarterly. judgments and estimates are based upon available facts, existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, remediation experience, whether or not we are a potentially responsible party (prp), the ability of other prps to pay their allocated portions and take into consideration reasonably possible outcomes. our cost estimates can change substantially as additional information becomes available regarding the nature or extent of site contamination, updated cost assumptions (including increases and decreases to cost estimates and changes in the anticipated scope and timing of remediation activities), required remediation methods and actions by or against governmental agencies or private parties. 72 table of contents at december 31, 2011 , environmental obligations recorded in our consolidated balance sheets totaled approximately $1.5 billion , which reflect obligations for environmental liabilities attributed to the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act (cercla) or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities. following is a summary of changes in our estimated environmental obligations for the years ended december 31 (in millions): 2011 2010 2009 balance at beginning of year $ 1,422 $ 1,464 $ 1,401 accretion expense a 88 97 102 additions 132 19 40 reductions (68 ) (3 ) spending (121 ) (158 ) (76 ) balance at end of year $ 1,453 $ 1,422 $ 1,464 a. represents accretion of the fair value of environmental obligations assumed in the acquisition of freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc, formerly phelps dodge corporation), which were determined on a discounted cash flow basis. refer to note 13 for further discussion of environmental obligations. reclamation and closure costs . reclamation is an ongoing activity that occurs throughout the life of a mine. we record the fair value of our estimated asset retirement obligations (aros) associated with tangible long-lived assets in the period incurred. fair value is measured as the present value of cash flow estimates after considering inflation and then applying a market risk premium. our cost estimates are reflected on a third-party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible long-lived assets in the period incurred. these cost estimates may differ from financial assurance cost estimates for reclamation activities because of a variety of factors, including obtaining updated cost estimates for reclamation activities, the timing of reclamation activities, changes in scope and the exclusion of certain costs not considered reclamation and closure costs. refer to note 1 for further discussion of our accounting policy for reclamation and closure costs. generally, aro activities are specified by regulations or in permits issued by the relevant governing authority, and management judgment is required to estimate the extent and timing of expenditures based on life-of-mine planning. accounting for reclamation and closure costs represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) we will not incur most of these costs for a number of years, requiring us to make estimates over a long period, (ii) reclamation and closure laws and regulations could change in the future and/or circumstances affecting our operations could change, either of which could result in significant changes to our current plans, (iii) calculating the fair value of our aros requires management to estimate projected cash flows, make long-term assumptions about inflation rates, determine our credit-adjusted, risk-free interest rates and determine market risk premiums that are appropriate for our operations and (iv) given the magnitude of our estimated reclamation and closure costs, changes in any or all of these estimates could have a significant impact on our results of operations. at least annually, we review our aro estimates for changes in the projected timing of certain reclamation costs, changes in cost estimates and additional aros incurred during the period. following is a summary of changes in our aros for the years ended december 31 (in millions): 2011 2010 2009 balance at beginning of year $ 856 $ 731 $ 712 liabilities incurred 9 5 12 revisions to cash flow estimates 48 a 105 a (17 ) accretion expense 58 54 52 spending (49 ) (38 ) (28 ) foreign currency translation adjustment (1 ) (1 ) balance at end of year $ 921 $ 856 $ 731 a. during 2011 and 2010 the revisions to cash flow estimates primarily related to increased costs of near-term closure activities at our chino mine. additionally, accelerated timing of closure activities at the chino mine resulted in revisions to cash flow estimates during 2010. 73 table of contents refer to note 13 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. deferred taxes . in preparing our annual consolidated financial statements, we estimate the actual amount of taxes currently payable or receivable as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in income in the period in which such changes are enacted. a valuation allowance is provided for those deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that the related benefits will not be realized. in determining the amount of the valuation allowance, we consider estimated future taxable income as well as feasible tax planning strategies in each jurisdiction. if we determine that we will not realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets, we will increase our valuation allowance. conversely, if we determine that we will ultimately be able to realize all or a portion of the related benefits for which a valuation allowance has been provided, all or a portion of the related valuation allowance will be reduced. our valuation allowances totaled $2.4 billion at december 31, 2011 , and $2.2 billion at december 31, 2010 , and covered all of our u.s. foreign tax credit carryforwards, and a portion of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards, u.s. state net operating loss carryforwards and u.s. minimum tax credit carryforwards. these valuation allowances include $80 million at december 31, 2011 , and $59 million at december 31, 2010 , for tax benefits that, if recognized, would be credited directly to other comprehensive income. the $167 million increase in the valuation allowance during 2011 was primarily the result of an increase in foreign tax credit carryforwards, partially offset by a decrease in minimum tax credit carryforwards. refer to note 12 for further discussion. impairment of assets. we evaluate our long-lived assets (to be held and used) for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. in evaluating our long-lived assets for recoverability, estimates of after-tax undiscounted future cash flows of our individual mining operations are used, with impairment losses measured by reference to fair value. as quoted market prices are unavailable for our individual mining operations, fair value is determined through the use of discounted estimated future cash flows. the estimated cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long-lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations are derived from current business plans, which are developed using near-term price forecasts reflective of the current price environment and management's projections for long-term average metal prices. in addition to near and long-term metal price assumptions, other key assumptions include commodity-based and other input costs; proven and probable reserves, including the timing and cost to develop and produce the reserves; and the use of appropriate escalation and discount rates. because the cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long-lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations require us to make several estimates and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainty, changes in these estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our long-lived asset values. events that could result in impairment of our long-lived assets include, but are not limited to, decreases in future metal prices, decreases in estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves and any event that might otherwise have a material adverse effect on mine site production levels or costs. we did not record asset impairment charges during the three years ended december 31, 2011 . 74 table of contents consolidated results years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 financial data (in millions, except per share amounts) revenues a,b $ 20,880 $ 18,982 $ 15,040 operating income b,c 9,140 d 9,068 6,503 net income attributable to fcx common stockholders 4,560 d,e,f 4,273 e 2,527 e diluted net income per share attributable to fcx common stockholders $ 4.78 d,e,f $ 4.57 e $ 2.93 e diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding 955 949 938 mining operating data copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 3,691 3,908 4,103 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 3,698 3,896 4,111 average realized price per pound $ 3.86 $ 3.59 $ 2.60 site production and delivery costs per pound g $ 1.72 $ 1.40 $ 1.12 unit net cash costs per pound g $ 1.01 $ 0.79 $ 0.55 gold (recoverable) production (thousands of ounces) 1,383 1,886 2,664 sales, excluding purchases (thousands of ounces) 1,378 1,863 2,639 average realized price per ounce $ 1,583 $ 1,271 $ 993 molybdenum (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 83 72 54 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 79 67 58 average realized price per pound $ 16.98 $ 16.47 $ 12.36 a. includes the impact of adjustments to provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales recognized in prior years. refer to revenues and disclosures about market risks commodity price risk for further discussion. b. refer to note 17 for a summary of revenues and operating income by business segment. c. we defer recognizing profits on intercompany sales until final sales to third parties occur. refer to "operations - atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining" for a summary of net impacts from changes in these deferrals. d. includes charges totaling $116 million ( $50 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.05 per share) primarily associated with bonuses for new labor agreements and other employee costs at pt freeport indonesia, cerro verde and el abra. e. includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversions of debt totaling $60 million ( $0.06 per share) in 2011 associated with the redemption of our $1.1 billion outstanding 8.25% senior notes and open-market purchases of senior notes, $71 million ( $0.07 per share) in 2010 associated with the redemption of our $1.0 billion senior floating rate notes and open-market purchases of senior notes, and $43 million ( $0.04 per share) in 2009 associated with the redemption and open-market purchases of senior notes. refer to note 9 for further discussion. f. includes additional taxes of $49 million ( $0.05 per share) associated with peru's new mining tax and royalty regime. refer to "provision for income taxes" for further discussion. g. reflects per pound weighted average production and delivery costs and unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for all copper mines, excluding net noncash and other costs. the 2009 period excludes the results of africa mining as start-up activities were still under way. for reconciliations of the per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements, refer to operations unit net cash costs and to product revenues and production costs. revenues consolidated revenues totaled $20.9 billion in 2011 , compared with $19.0 billion in 2010 and $15.0 billion in 2009 , and include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, gold, molybdenum and other metals by our north and south america copper mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our indonesia mining operations, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes, and gold in anodes and slimes by atlantic copper. our mining revenues for 2011 include sales of copper ( 78 percent ), gold ( 12 percent ) and molybdenum ( 6 percent ). 75 table of contents following is a summary of year-to-year changes in our consolidated revenues (in millions): 2011 2010 consolidated revenues prior year $ 18,982 $ 15,040 higher (lower) price realizations from mining operations: copper 999 3,779 gold 430 517 molybdenum 39 273 silver 121 44 cobalt (24 ) (lower) higher sales volumes from mining operations: copper (711 ) (563 ) gold (616 ) (771 ) molybdenum 206 105 silver 27 (15 ) cobalt 59 195 unfavorable impacts of net adjustments for prior year provisionally priced sales (4 ) (155 ) higher purchased copper, net of lower purchased molybdenum 258 188 higher atlantic copper revenues 493 599 other, including intercompany eliminations 621 (254 ) consolidated revenues current year $ 20,880 $ 18,982 price realizations our consolidated revenues can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. realized copper prices averaged $3.86 per pound in 2011 , $3.59 per pound in 2010 and $2.60 per pound in 2009 . realized gold prices averaged $1,583 per ounce in 2011 , $1,271 per ounce in 2010 and $993 per ounce in 2009 . realized molybdenum prices averaged $16.98 per pound in 2011 , $16.47 per pound in 2010 and $12.36 per pound in 2009 . sales volumes 2011 compared with 2010 . consolidated sales volumes totaled 3.7 billion pounds of copper, 1.4 million ounces of gold and 79 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 , compared with 3.9 billion pounds of copper, 1.9 million ounces of gold and 67 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010 . lower consolidated copper sales volumes in 2011 primarily reflect lower sales volumes in indonesia, partly offset by higher sales volumes in north america. lower consolidated gold sales volumes in 2011 primarily reflect lower grasberg production. sales of copper and gold in 2011 were adversely affected by labor disruptions and the temporary suspension of milling operations at pt freeport indonesia from damage to the concentrate and fuel pipelines. the estimated impact of the labor and pipeline disruptions totaled 235 million pounds of copper and 275 thousand ounces of gold in 2011. higher consolidated molybdenum sales volumes in 2011 primarily reflected improved demand. refer to operations for further discussion of sales volumes at our operating divisions. 2010 compared with 2009 . consolidated sales volumes totaled 3.9 billion pounds of copper, 1.9 million ounces of gold and 67 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010 , compared with 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 2.6 million ounces of gold and 58 million pounds of molybdenum in 2009 . lower consolidated copper sales volumes in 2010 primarily resulted from lower ore grades at grasberg and lower volumes at our north america copper mines, partly offset by additional volumes provided by our tenke mine in africa. lower consolidated gold sales volumes in 2010 primarily reflected lower ore grades at grasberg from planned mine sequencing. higher consolidated molybdenum sales volumes in 2010 reflected improved demand. provisionally priced sales substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices (refer to disclosures about market risks commodity price risk for further discussion). adjustments to the december 31, 2010 , provisionally priced copper sales resulted in unfavorable impacts to consolidated revenues of $12 million ( $5 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) in 2011 . adjustments to the december 31, 2009 , provisionally priced copper sales resulted in unfavorable impacts to consolidated revenues of $24 million ( $10 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) in 2010 . adjustments to the december 31, 2008 , provisionally priced copper sales 76 table of contents resulted in favorable impacts to consolidated revenues of $132 million ( $61 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.07 per share) in 2009 . the year 2011 also reflected unfavorable impacts of $13 million from adjustments to december 31, 2010, provisionally priced gold sales. purchased copper and molybdenum from time to time we purchase copper cathode for processing by our rod &amp; refining segment when production from our north america copper mines does not meet customer demand. the increases in purchased copper in 2011 and 2010, compared with prior years, resulted from higher customer demand and higher copper prices. we also purchase molybdenum concentrates when customer demand requires it. partly offsetting increases in purchased copper were decreases in purchased molybdenum in 2011 and 2010, compared with prior years. atlantic copper revenues the increases in atlantic copper's revenues in 2011 and 2010, compared with prior years, primarily reflected higher copper and gold revenues associated with higher copper and gold prices. production and delivery costs 2011 compared with 2010 consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $9.9 billion in 2011 , compared with $8.3 billion in 2010 . higher production and delivery costs for 2011 primarily reflect increased mining and milling activities in north america, higher input costs at our mining operations, higher costs of concentrate purchases at atlantic copper associated with higher copper and gold prices and higher costs of copper cathode purchases in north america associated with higher copper prices. consolidated unit site production and delivery costs for our copper mining operations averaged $1.72 per pound of copper in 2011 , compared with $1.40 per pound of copper in 2010 . higher site production and delivery costs in 2011 primarily reflected lower copper sales volumes in indonesia and increased mining and input costs in north and south america and africa. consolidated unit net cash costs in 2011 also included $116 million ($0.03 per pound) primarily related to bonuses for new labor agreements and other employee costs in indonesia and south america. refer to operations unit net cash costs for further discussion of unit net cash costs associated with our operating divisions, and to product revenues and production costs for reconciliations of per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas. energy costs approximated 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs in 2011 , and included purchases of approximately 225 million gallons of diesel fuel; 6,475 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america, south america and africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 650 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 million mmbtu (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. for 2012 , we estimate energy costs will approximate 23 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. 2010 compared with 2009 consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $8.3 billion in 2010 , compared with $7.0 billion in 2009 . higher production and delivery costs for 2010 primarily reflect higher input costs at our mining operations and higher costs of concentrate purchases at atlantic copper associated with higher copper prices. depreciation, depletion and amortization consolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $1.0 billion in 2011 , 2010 and 2009 . depreciation will vary under the uop method as a result of increases and decreases in sales volumes and the related uop rates at our mining operations. selling, general and administrative expenses consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $415 million in 2011 , $381 million in 2010 and $321 million in 2009 . higher selling, general and administrative expenses in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily reflected higher charitable contributions. approximately half of the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2010, compared with 2009, reflected higher stock-based compensation and other incentive compensation costs related to improved financial performance. 77 table of contents exploration and research expenses consolidated exploration and research expenses totaled $271 million in 2011 , $143 million in 2010 and $90 million in 2009 . we are conducting exploration activities near our existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where we currently operate. exploration results indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions in north and south america and in the tenke minerals district. the drilling data in north america continue to indicate the potential for expanded sulfide production. for 2012 , exploration and research expenditures are being increased to an estimated $330 million , including approximately $275 million for exploration. exploration activities will continue to focus primarily on the potential for future reserve additions in our existing minerals districts. environmental obligations and shutdown costs environmental obligations costs reflect net revisions to our long-term environmental obligations, which will vary from period to period because of changes to environmental laws and regulations and/or circumstances affecting our operations and could result in significant changes in our estimates (refer to "critical accounting estimates - environmental obligations" for further discussion). shutdown costs include care and maintenance costs and any litigation, remediation, or related expenditures associated with closed facilities or operations. environmental obligations and shutdown costs totaled $134 million in 2011 , $19 million in 2010 and $106 million in 2009 (which also included net restructuring charges of $23 million in 2009). refer to note 13 for further discussion of environmental obligations and litigation matters associated with closed facilities or operations. interest expense, net consolidated interest expense (before capitalization) totaled $421 million in 2011 , $528 million in 2010 and $664 million in 2009 . lower interest expense primarily reflected the impact of debt repayments during 2011, 2010 and 2009 (refer to note 9 for discussion of debt repayments). capitalized interest is primarily related to our development projects and totaled $109 million in 2011 , $66 million in 2010 and $78 million in 2009 . refer to "operations" for further discussion of current development projects. losses on early extinguishment of debt during 2011, we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $68 million ( $60 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.06 per share) associated with the redemption of our 8.25% senior notes, the revolving credit facilities that were replaced in march 2011 and open-market purchases of our 9.50% senior notes. during 2010, we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $81 million ( $71 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.07 per share) associated with the redemption of our senior floating rate notes and open-market purchases of our 8.25%, 8.375% and 9.50% senior notes. during 2009, we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $48 million ( $43 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.04 per share) associated with the redemption of our 6.875% senior notes and open-market purchases of our 8.25%, 8.375% and 8 % senior notes. refer to note 9 for further discussion of these transactions. 78 table of contents provision for income taxes following is a summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for 2011 and 2010 (in millions, except percentages): year ended december 31, 2011 year ended december 31, 2010 income a effective tax rate income tax provision income (loss) a effective tax rate income tax (provision) benefit u.s. $ 2,112 23% $ (478 ) $ 1,307 19% $ (244 ) south america 3,017 36% (1,075 ) b 2,995 33% (999 ) indonesia 2,923 43% (1,256 ) 4,069 42% (1,709 ) africa 357 34% (120 ) 395 30% (118 ) eliminations and other 409 n/a (158 ) (254 ) n/a 87 consolidated fcx $ 8,818 35% $ (3,087 ) $ 8,512 35% $ (2,983 ) a. represents income (loss) by geographic location before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies' net earnings. b. on september 29, 2011, peru enacted its new mining tax and royalty regime. under the new regime, companies that do not have stability agreements will be subject to a revised royalty and a special mining tax. cerro verde operates under a stability agreement and therefore, is not subject to the revised royalty and special mining tax until its stability agreement expires on december 31, 2013. the peruvian government has also created a special mining burden that companies with stability agreements can elect to pay. the special mining burden is levied on profits and is based on a sliding scale of 4 to 13 percent, with a maximum effective rate of 8.79 percent. cerro verde will elect to pay this special mining burden during the remaining term of its stability agreement. as a result, cerro verde recognized additional current and deferred tax expense of $53 million ( $49 million net of noncontrolling interests) in 2011. the deferred portion of this accrual relates primarily to the assets recorded in connection with the 2007 acquisition of fmc. our estimated consolidated effective tax rate for 2012 will vary with commodity price changes and the mix of income from international and u.s. operations. assuming average prices of $3.50 per pound for copper, $1,600 per ounce for gold, $13 per pound for molybdenum and current sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate our annual consolidated effective tax rate will approximate 34 percent . following is a summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for 2009 (in millions, except percentages): year ended december 31, 2009 income (loss) a effective tax rate income tax (provision) benefit u.s. $ 98 36% $ (35 ) b south america 2,010 32% (650 ) indonesia 4,000 42% (1,697 ) africa (60 ) 25% 15 eliminations and other (232 ) n/a 60 consolidated fcx $ 5,816 40% c $ (2,307 ) a. represents income (loss) by geographic location before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies' net earnings. b. includes a favorable adjustment totaling $43 million resulting from completion of a review of u.s. deferred income tax accounts. c. the difference between our consolidated effective income tax rate of 40 percent and the u.s. federal statutory rate of 35 percent primarily was attributable to the high proportion of income earned in indonesia, which was taxed at an effective tax rate of 42 percent. refer to note 12 for further discussion of income taxes. 79 table of contents operations north america copper mines we currently operate seven copper mines in north america morenci, bagdad, safford, sierrita and miami in arizona, and tyrone and chino in new mexico. all of these mining operations are wholly owned, except for morenci, an unincorporated joint venture, in which we own an 85 percent undivided interest. the north america copper mines include open-pit mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and solution extraction/electrowinning (sx/ew) operations. molybdenum concentrate is also produced by certain of our north america copper mines (primarily sierrita, bagdad and morenci) . a majority of the copper produced at our north america copper mines is cast into copper rod by our rod &amp; refining operations. the remainder of our north america copper sales is primarily in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate. operating and development activities. during 2011 and 2010, we increased production at our north america copper mines, which had been curtailed in late 2008 because of weak market conditions. further discussion of the development projects at our north america copper mines is presented below. we also have a number of opportunities to invest in additional production capacity at several of our north america copper mines. exploration results in recent years indicate the potential for additional sulfide development in north america. morenci mine ramp-up and mill restart. during second-quarter 2011, we completed the ramp up of morenci's mining rates to 635,000 metric tons of ore per day and milling rates to approximately 50,000 metric tons of ore per day, resulting in increased copper production of approximately 125 million pounds of copper per year. we are advancing a feasibility study to expand mining and milling capacity at morenci to process additional sulfide ore identified through exploratory drilling. this project, which would require significant investment, would increase milling rates from the current level of 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day and target incremental annual copper production of approximately 225 million pounds. completion of the feasibility study is expected in the first half of 2012. chino restart . during 2011, mining and milling activities were restarted at the chino mine. production at chino, which totaled 69 million pounds of copper in 2011, is expected to increase to approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year by 2014. costs for the project associated with equipment and mill refurbishment are expected to approximate $175 million. project costs of $105 million have been incurred as of december 31, 2011 . miami restart. the ramp up of mining activities at the miami mine is complete. production at miami totaled 66 million pounds of copper in 2011, and is expected to be similar in 2012. safford sulphur burner. during 2011, we completed construction of the $150 million sulphur burner project at the safford mine, which is providing a more cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in sx/ew operations and lower transportation costs. twin buttes. in december 2009, we purchased the twin buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994, and is adjacent to our sierrita mine. the purchase provides significant synergies in the sierrita minerals district, including the potential for expanded mining activities and access to material that can be used for sierrita tailings and stockpile reclamation purposes. we are conducting drilling on the property and metallurgical studies to support a feasibility study expected to commence in 2012. 80 table of contents operating data. following is summary operating data for the north america copper mines for the years ended december 31. 2011 2010 2009 operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 1,258 1,067 1,147 sales, excluding purchases 1,247 1,085 1,187 average realized price per pound $ 3.99 $ 3.42 $ 2.38 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production a 35 25 25 100% operating data sx/ew operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 888,300 648,800 589,400 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.24 0.24 0.29 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 801 746 859 mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 222,800 189,200 169,900 average ore grade (percent): copper 0.38 0.32 0.33 molybdenum 0.03 0.03 0.02 copper recovery rate (percent) 83.1 83.0 86.0 production (millions of recoverable pounds): copper 549 398 364 molybdenum 35 25 25 a. reflects molybdenum production from certain of our north america copper mines. sales of molybdenum are reflected in the molybdenum division. 2011 compared with 2010 copper sales volumes from our north america copper mines increased to 1.2 billion pounds in 2011 , compared with 1.1 billion pounds in 2010 , primarily reflecting increased production at the morenci, miami and chino mines. copper sales volumes from our north america copper mines are expected to approximate 1.3 billion pounds in 2012 . molybdenum production from our north america copper mines is expected to approximate 30 million pounds in 2012 . 2010 compared with 2009 copper sales volumes from our north america copper mines decreased to 1.1 billion pounds in 2010 , compared with 1.2 billion pounds in 2009 , primarily because of anticipated lower ore grades at safford and sierrita, lower mill throughput because of unscheduled crusher maintenance at bagdad and mill maintenance at sierrita. 81 table of contents unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. gross profit per pound of copper and molybdenum the following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at the north america copper mines for the years ended december 31. refer to product revenues and production costs for an explanation of the by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2011 2010 by- co-product method by- co-product method product method copper molyb- denum a product method copper molyb- denum a revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.99 $ 3.99 $ 15.72 $ 3.42 $ 3.42 $ 15.60 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.78 1.60 6.86 1.50 1.35 7.95 by-product credits a (0.48 ) (0.35 ) treatment charges 0.11 0.10 0.09 0.09 unit net cash costs 1.41 1.70 6.86 1.24 1.44 7.95 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.21 0.20 0.39 0.24 0.22 0.54 noncash and other costs, net 0.07 0.07 0.05 0.12 0.12 0.01 total unit costs 1.69 1.97 7.30 1.60 1.78 8.50 revenue adjustments idle facility and other non-inventoriable costs (0.06 ) (0.06 ) (0.04 ) (0.08 ) (0.08 ) (0.02 ) gross profit per pound $ 2.24 $ 1.96 $ 8.38 $ 1.74 $ 1.56 $ 7.08 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,244 1,244 1,082 1,082 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) b 35 25 a. molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market-based pricing and also include tolling revenues at sierrita. b. reflects molybdenum produced by certain of our north america copper mines. unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our north america copper mines increased to $1.41 per pound of copper in 2011 , compared with $1.24 per pound in 2010 , primarily reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.28 per pound) resulting from increased mining and milling activities and higher input costs. partly offsetting higher site production and delivery costs were higher molybdenum credits ($0.13 per pound) primarily resulting from higher molybdenum volumes. our operating north america copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and characteristics, processing costs, by-products and other factors. during 2011 , average unit net cash costs for the north america copper mines ranged from a net cost of $0.41 per pound to $1.97 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.41 per pound. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and an average price of $13 per pound of molybdenum for 2012 , we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our north america copper mines would approximate $1.67 per pound of copper in 2012 . north america's average unit net cash costs for 2012 would change by approximately $0.04 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum during 2012 . higher projected unit net cash costs in 2012, compared with 2011, primarily reflect higher mining and milling rates and lower by-product credits associated with lower molybdenum grades and prices, partly offset by higher projected copper volumes. 82 table of contents 2010 2009 by- co-product method by- co-product method product method copper molyb- denum a product method copper molyb- denum a revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.42 $ 3.42 $ 15.60 $ 2.38 $ 2.38 $ 10.96 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.50 1.35 7.95 1.25 1.15 5.67 by-product credits a (0.35 ) (0.23 ) treatment charges 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.09 unit net cash costs 1.24 1.44 7.95 1.11 1.24 5.67 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.24 0.22 0.54 0.22 0.21 0.40 noncash and other costs, net 0.12 0.12 0.01 0.11 0.11 0.07 total unit costs 1.60 1.78 8.50 1.44 1.56 6.14 revenue adjustments 0.08 0.08 idle facility and other non-inventoriable costs (0.08 ) (0.08 ) (0.02 ) (0.08 ) (0.08 ) gross profit per pound $ 1.74 $ 1.56 $ 7.08 $ 0.94 $ 0.82 $ 4.82 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,082 1,082 1,185 1,185 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) b 25 25 a. molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market-based pricing and also include tolling revenues at sierrita. b. reflects molybdenum produced by certain of our north america copper mines. unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our north america copper mines increased to $1.24 per pound of copper in 2010 , compared with $1.11 per pound in 2009 , primarily reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.25 per pound) associated with higher input costs and increased mining and milling activities at certain mines. partly offsetting these higher costs were higher molybdenum credits ($0.12 per pound) primarily resulting from higher molybdenum prices. some of our u.s. copper rod customers request a fixed market price instead of the comex average price in the month of shipment. we hedge this price exposure in a manner that allows us to receive market prices in the month of shipment while the customer pays the fixed price they requested. because these contracts previously did not meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, revenue adjustments in 2009 reflected unrealized gains on these copper derivative contracts (refer to note 15 for further discussion). south america mining we operate four copper mines in south america cerro verde in peru, and el abra, candelaria and ojos del salado in chile. we own a 53.56 percent interest in cerro verde, a 51 percent interest in el abra and an 80 percent interest in both candelaria and ojos del salado. south america mining includes open-pit and underground mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and sx/ew operations. production from our south america mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under long-term contracts. our south america mines ship a portion of their copper concentrate inventories to atlantic copper, an affiliated smelter. in addition to copper, the cerro verde mine also produces molybdenum concentrates, and the candelaria and ojos del salado mines also produce gold and silver. operating and development activities. el abra sulfide. during 2011, we commenced production from el abra's newly commissioned stacking and leaching facilities to transition from production of oxide to sulfide ores. production from the sulfide ore will approximate 300 million pounds of copper per year, replacing the depleting oxide copper production. the aggregate capital investment for this project is expected to total $725 million through 2015, of which approximately $580 million is for the initial phase of the project that is expected to be completed in first-quarter 2012. project costs of $513 million have been incurred as of december 31, 2011 ($152 million during 2011 ). we are also engaged in pre-feasibility studies for a potential large-scale milling operation at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. exploration results at el abra indicate the potential for a significant sulfide resource. exploration activities are continuing. 83 table of contents cerro verde expansion. at cerro verde, plans for a large-scale concentrator expansion continue to be advanced. the approximate $4 billion project would expand the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. an environmental impact assessment was filed in fourth-quarter 2011. an agreement has been reached with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s. a (sedapar) and other local institutions to allow cerro verde to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant for arequipa, should cerro verde proceed with the expansion. once cerro verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement existing water supplies to support the potential concentrator expansion. candelaria water. as part of our overall strategy to supply water to the candelaria mine, we completed construction of a pipeline to bring water from a nearby water treatment facility. in addition, we have completed engineering and began construction for a desalination plant that will supply candelaria's longer term water needs. the plant is expected to be completed in early 2013 at a capital investment of approximately $300 million. project costs of $126 million have been incurred as of december 31, 2011 ($120 million during 2011 ). other matters. in fourth-quarter 2011, there was an approximate two-month labor strike at cerro verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. the strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three-year agreement with the union was reached in late december 2011. also during fourth-quarter 2011, el abra negotiated a new four-year labor agreement with its union, which will replace the agreement scheduled to expire in july 2012. in december 2011, bonuses totaling $50 million were paid to employees at cerro verde and el abra pursuant to the new labor agreements. operating data. following is summary operating data for the south america mining operations for the years ended december 31. 2011 2010 2009 copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 1,306 1,354 1,390 sales 1,322 1,335 1,394 average realized price per pound $ 3.77 $ 3.68 $ 2.70 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 101 93 92 sales 101 93 90 average realized price per ounce $ 1,580 $ 1,263 $ 982 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production a 10 7 2 sx/ew operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 245,200 268,800 258,200 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.50 0.41 0.45 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 439 504 565 mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 189,200 188,800 181,300 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.66 0.65 0.66 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.12 0.10 0.10 molybdenum (percent) 0.02 0.02 0.02 copper recovery rate (percent) 89.6 90.0 88.9 production (recoverable): copper (millions of pounds) 867 850 825 gold (thousands of ounces) 101 93 92 molybdenum (millions of pounds) 10 7 2 a. reflects molybdenum production from at cerro verde mine. sales of molybdenum are reflected in the molybdenum division. 84 table of contents 2011 compared with 2010 copper sales volumes from our south america mining operations totaled 1.3 billion pounds in 2011 and 2010 , primarily reflecting lower mining rates at el abra as it transitions from oxide to sulfide ores, partially offset by higher ore grades at candelaria. consolidated sales volumes from our south america mines are expected to approximate 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 100 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 , slightly lower than 2011 sales. lower projected ore grades at cerro verde and candelaria in 2012 are expected to be partly offset by higher production at el abra. molybdenum production from cerro verde is expected to approximate 10 million pounds in 2012. 2010 compared with 2009 copper sales volumes from our south america mining operations decreased to 1.3 billion pounds in 2010 , compared with 1.4 billion in 2009 , primarily reflecting anticipated lower ore grades at el abra. unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. gross profit per pound of copper the following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at our south america mining operations for the years ended december 31. these tables reflect unit net cash costs per pound of copper under the by-product and co-product methods as our south america mining operations also had small amounts of molybdenum, gold and silver sales. refer to product revenues and production costs for an explanation of the by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2011 2010 by-product method co-product method by-product method co-product method revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.77 $ 3.77 $ 3.68 $ 3.68 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.38 a 1.27 1.21 1.14 by-product credits (0.35 ) (0.21 ) treatment charges 0.17 0.17 0.15 0.15 unit net cash costs 1.20 1.44 1.15 1.29 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.20 0.18 0.19 0.18 noncash and other costs, net 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 total unit costs 1.42 1.64 1.35 1.48 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.01 (0.01 ) (0.01 ) other non-inventoriable costs (0.04 ) (0.03 ) (0.04 ) (0.04 ) gross profit per pound $ 2.32 $ 2.10 $ 2.28 $ 2.15 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,322 1,322 1,335 1,335 a. includes impacts of $50 million ($0.04 per pound) associated with bonuses paid at cerro verde and el abra pursuant to the new labor agreements. unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our south america mining operations increased to $1.20 per pound of copper in 2011 , compared with $1.15 per pound in 2010 , primarily reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.17 per pound) associated with higher input costs and the impact of bonuses paid pursuant to new labor agreements, partially offset by higher gold, molybdenum and silver credits ($0.14 per pound). 85 table of contents our south america mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and characteristics, processing costs, by-products and other factors. during 2011 , unit net cash costs for the south america mines ranged from $0.93 per pound to $1.67 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.20 per pound. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and average prices of $1,600 per ounce of gold and $13 per pound of molybdenum in 2012 , we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our south america mining operations would approximate $1.41 per pound of copper in 2012 . higher projected unit net cash costs in 2012, compared with 2011, primarily reflect increases in input costs, including labor and energy, lower by-product credits and slightly lower projected volumes. 2010 2009 by-product method co-product method by-product method co-product method revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.68 $ 3.68 $ 2.70 $ 2.70 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.21 1.14 1.08 1.02 by-product credits (0.21 ) (0.11 ) treatment charges 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.15 unit net cash costs 1.15 1.29 1.12 1.17 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.19 0.18 0.20 0.19 noncash and other costs, net 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.02 total unit costs 1.35 1.48 1.34 1.38 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (0.01 ) (0.01 ) 0.08 0.08 other non-inventoriable costs (0.04 ) (0.04 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) gross profit per pound $ 2.28 $ 2.15 $ 1.42 $ 1.38 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,335 1,335 1,394 1,394 unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our south america mining operations increased to $1.15 per pound of copper in 2010 , compared with $1.12 per pound in 2009 , primarily reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.13 per pound) associated with higher input costs and the impact of higher copper prices on profit sharing programs. partly offsetting higher site production and delivery costs were higher molybdenum, gold and silver credits ($0.10 per pound) associated with higher molybdenum volumes and prices and higher gold prices. indonesia mining indonesia mining includes pt freeport indonesia's grasberg minerals district. we own 90.64 percent of pt freeport indonesia, including 9.36 percent through our wholly owned subsidiary, pt indocopper investama. pt freeport indonesia produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver. substantially all of pt freeport indonesia's copper concentrates are sold under long-term contracts, of which approximately one-half is sold to affiliated smelters, atlantic copper and pt smelting (pt freeport indonesia's 25-percent owned copper smelter and refinery in indonesia - refer to note 2 for further discussion), and the remainder to other customers. refer to note 2 for further discussion of our joint ventures with rio tinto plc and to note 14 for further discussion of pt freeport indonesia's contract of work with the government of indonesia. refer to "risk factors" contained in part i, item 1a of our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2011, for discussion of risks associated with operations in indonesia. development activities. we have several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district, primarily related to the development of the large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the grasberg open pit. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the currently anticipated transition from the grasberg open pit in 2016. over the next five years, aggregate capital spending on these projects is expected to average $700 million per year ( $550 million per year net to pt freeport indonesia). considering the long-term nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could differ materially from these estimates. 86 table of contents the following provides additional information on these projects, including the continued development of the common infrastructure project, the grasberg block cave and big gossan underground mines and development of the deep mill level zone (dmlz) ore body, that lies below the deep ore zone (doz) underground mine. common infrastructure and underground mines. in 2004, pt freeport indonesia commenced its common infrastructure project to provide access to its large undeveloped underground ore bodies located in the grasberg minerals district through a tunnel system located approximately 400 meters deeper than its existing underground tunnel system. in addition to providing access to our underground ore bodies, the tunnel system will enable pt freeport indonesia to conduct future exploration in prospective areas associated with currently identified ore bodies. the tunnel system was completed to the big gossan terminal and the big gossan mine has been brought into production. we have also advanced development of both the dmlz and grasberg spurs, and have completed the tunneling required to reach these underground ore bodies. the grasberg block cave underground mine accounts for over one-third of our reserves in indonesia. production at the grasberg block cave mine is currently scheduled to commence at the end of mining the grasberg open pit, which is currently expected to continue until mid-2016. the timing of the transition to underground grasberg block cave mine development will continue to be assessed. targeted production rates once the grasberg block cave mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 160,000 metric tons of ore per day. aggregate mine development capital for the grasberg block cave mine and associated common infrastructure is expected to approximate $4.2 billion (incurred from 2008 to 2021), with pt freeport indonesia's share totaling approximately $3.8 billion. aggregate project costs totaling $569 million have been incurred through december 31, 2011 ($309 million during 2011 ). big gossan. the big gossan underground mine is a high-grade deposit located near pt freeport indonesia's existing milling complex. the big gossan mine is being developed as an open-stope mine with backfill consisting of mill tailings and cement, an established mining methodology. production, which began in fourth-quarter 2010, is designed to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by mid-2013 (equal to average annual aggregate incremental production of 125 million pounds of copper and 65,000 ounces of gold, with pt freeport indonesia receiving 60 percent of these amounts). the aggregate capital investment for this project is currently estimated at approximately $550 million, with pt freeport indonesia's share totaling approximately $518 million. aggregate project costs of $494 million have been incurred through december 31, 2011 ($50 million during 2011 ). dmlz. the dmlz ore body lies below the doz mine at the 2,590-meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the ertsberg east skarn system and neighboring ertsberg porphyry. we plan to mine the ore body using a block-cave method with production beginning in 2015, near completion of mining at the doz mine. drilling efforts continue to determine the extent of this ore body. we continue to develop the common infrastructure project and tunnels from mill level. in 2009, we completed a portion of the spur to the dmlz mine and reached the edge of the dmlz terminal and development continued on terminal infrastructure and mine access in 2011. aggregate mine development capital costs for the dmlz are expected to approximate $2.2 billion (incurred from 2009 to 2020), with pt freeport indonesia's share totaling approximately $1.3 billion. aggregate project costs totaling $269 million have been incurred through december 31, 2011 ($166 million during 2011 ). targeted production rates once the dmlz mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. other matters. during 2011, pt freeport indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including the eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and the approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. additionally, pt freeport indonesia's milling operations were temporarily suspended during fourth-quarter 2011 because of damage to concentrate and fuel pipelines resulting from civil unrest that occurred during the strike. repairs to the damaged pipelines are substantially complete, and pt freeport indonesia has begun ramping up production. pt freeport indonesia is working cooperatively with the government of indonesia to address security issues. maintaining security is a requirement of returning to normal operations. although a new labor agreement has been reached, we are experiencing work interruptions in connection with our efforts to resume normal operations at pt freeport indonesia. pt freeport indonesia is complying with the terms of the new labor agreement with its union. certain of the returning workers have engaged in acts of violence and intimidation against workers and supervisory personnel who did not participate in the strike. on february 23, 2012, the union indicated that it will engage in a work stoppage and we temporarily suspended operations to protect our employees and assets following the incidents of intimidation and threats within the workforce. we are working with union officials and government authorities to resolve the ongoing issues. the work interruptions and temporary suspension of 87 table of contents operations at pt freeport indonesia may impact our ability to achieve projected sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flows in 2012. in mid-december 2011, the financial terms of a new two-year labor agreement for pt freeport indonesia were reached. pursuant to the terms, pt freeport indonesia agreed to increase base wages by 24 percent in the first year and 13 percent in the second year (equivalent to a 40 percent increase over two-years on a compound basis). pt freeport indonesia also paid a bonus equivalent to three months of base wages and agreed to provide other benefits, including enhancements to housing allowances, educational assistance and retirement savings plans. the parties also agreed that future wage negotiations would be based on living costs and the competitiveness of wages within indonesia. the impact of the terms agreed to in pt freeport indonesia's new labor agreement, including the bonuses and other strike-related employee costs, totaled approximately $66 million for 2011. between july 2009 and february 2012, there were 32 shooting incidents in and around the grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which resulted in 15 fatalities and 56 injuries. the investigation of these matters is continuing. we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. the indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt freeport indonesia is working cooperatively with the government of indonesia to address security issues. operating data. following is summary operating data for our indonesia mining operations for the years ended december 31. 2011 2010 2009 operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 846 1,222 1,412 sales 846 1,214 1,400 average realized price per pound $ 3.85 $ 3.69 $ 2.65 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 1,272 1,786 2,568 sales 1,270 1,765 2,543 average realized price per ounce $ 1,583 $ 1,271 $ 994 100% operating data ore milled (metric tons per day): a grasberg open pit 112,900 149,800 166,300 doz underground mine 51,700 79,600 72,000 big gossan underground mine 1,500 800 total 166,100 230,200 238,300 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.79 0.85 0.98 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.93 0.90 1.30 recovery rates (percent): copper 88.3 88.9 90.6 gold 81.2 81.7 83.7 production (recoverable): copper (millions of pounds) 882 1,330 1,641 gold (thousands of ounces) 1,444 1,964 2,984 a. amounts represent the approximate average daily throughput processed at pt freeport indonesia's mill facilities from each producing mine. 2011 compared with 2010 sales volumes from our indonesia mining operations declined to 846 million pounds of copper and 1.3 million ounces of gold in 2011 , compared with 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.8 million ounces of gold in 2010 . lower copper and gold sales volumes in 2011 primarily reflect the impact of labor-related disruptions and the temporary 88 table of contents suspension of milling operations in fourth-quarter 2011 because of damage to the concentrate and fuel pipelines. the estimated impact of the labor and pipeline disruptions (net to pt freeport indonesia), including the eight-day strike in july 2011, totaled approximately 235 million pounds of copper and approximately 275 thousand ounces of gold. at the grasberg open pit, the sequencing of mining areas with varying ore grades also causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold. consolidated sales volumes from our indonesia mining operations are expected to approximate 930 million pounds of copper and 1.1 million ounces of gold for 2012 . gold sales in 2012 are projected to be lower than in 2011 because of mining in a lower grade section of the grasberg open pit in 2012. indonesia's projected sales volumes for the year 2012 (which includes 210 million pounds of copper and 400 thousand ounces of gold in first-quarter 2012) are under review. the achievement of projected 2012 sales volumes depends on a number of factors, including the timing of restoring full operations at grasberg following the extended disruption in 2011 and because of recent work interruptions and the temporary suspension of operations. 2010 compared with 2009 sales volumes from our indonesia mining operations decreased to 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.8 million ounces of gold in 2010 , compared with 1.4 billion pounds of copper and 2.5 million ounces of gold in 2009 . lower copper and gold sales volumes in 2010 primarily reflected mining in a lower grade section of the grasberg open pit during the first half of 2010 . unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. gross profit per pound of copper/per ounce of gold the following tables summarize the unit net cash costs (credits) and gross profit per pound of copper and per ounce of gold at our indonesia mining operations for the years ended december 31. refer to production revenues and production costs for an explanation of by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs (credits) per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2011 2010 by- co-product method by- co-product method product method copper gold product method copper gold revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.85 $ 3.85 $ 1,583 $ 3.69 $ 3.69 $ 1,271 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2.21 a 1.34 551 1.53 1.01 347 gold and silver credits (2.47 ) (1.92 ) treatment charges 0.19 0.11 46 0.22 0.15 50 royalty on metals 0.16 0.10 41 0.13 0.08 29 unit net cash costs (credits) 0.09 1.55 638 (0.04 ) 1.24 426 depreciation and amortization 0.25 0.16 63 0.21 0.14 48 noncash and other costs, net 0.04 0.02 10 0.04 0.02 9 total unit costs 0.38 1.73 711 0.21 1.40 483 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (0.01 ) (0.01 ) (13 ) (0.01 ) (0.01 ) 1 gross profit per pound/ounce $ 3.46 $ 2.11 $ 859 $ 3.47 $ 2.28 $ 789 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 846 846 1,214 1,214 gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,270 1,765 a. includes impacts of $66 million ($0.08 per pound) associated with bonuses and other strike-related costs. 89 table of contents unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) for our indonesia mining operations averaged $0.09 per pound of copper in 2011 , compared with a net credit of $0.04 per pound in 2010 . higher unit net cash costs primarily reflected higher site production and delivery costs ($0.68 per pound) primarily from lower copper sales volumes and the impact of bonuses and other strike-related costs, partially offset by higher gold and silver credits ($0.55 per pound). treatment charges vary with the volume of metals sold and the price of copper, and royalties vary with the volume of metals sold and the prices of copper and gold. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, and an average gold price of $1,600 per ounce for 2012 , we estimate that average unit net cash costs for indonesia (net of gold and silver credits) would approximate $0.98 per pound of copper for the year 2012 . indonesia's unit net cash costs for 2012 would change by $0.06 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold during 2012 . higher projected unit net cash costs in 2012, compared with 2011, primarily reflect higher input costs, including labor and energy, and lower by-product credits, partly offset by higher projected copper volumes. quarterly unit net cash costs are expected to vary significantly with variations in quarterly metal sales volumes. 2010 2009 by- co-product method by- co-product method product method copper gold product method copper gold revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.69 $ 3.69 $ 1,271 $ 2.65 $ 2.65 $ 994 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.53 1.01 347 1.05 0.62 232 gold and silver credits (1.92 ) (1.86 ) treatment charges 0.22 0.15 50 0.22 0.13 49 royalty on metals 0.13 0.08 29 0.10 0.06 23 unit net cash (credits) costs (0.04 ) 1.24 426 (0.49 ) 0.81 304 depreciation and amortization 0.21 0.14 48 0.20 0.11 43 noncash and other costs, net 0.04 0.02 9 0.03 0.02 6 total unit costs (credits) 0.21 1.40 483 (0.26 ) 0.94 353 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (0.01 ) (0.01 ) 1 0.04 0.04 2 gross profit per pound/ounce $ 3.47 $ 2.28 $ 789 $ 2.95 $ 1.75 $ 643 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,214 1,214 1,400 1,400 gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,765 2,543 unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) increased to a net credit of $0.04 per pound of copper in 2010 , compared with a net credit of $0.49 per pound in 2009 , reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.48 per pound) primarily associated with lower copper sales volumes, higher input costs (including materials, labor and energy), higher maintenance and support costs and higher cost sharing under joint venture arrangements. partly offsetting higher site production and delivery costs were higher gold and silver credits ($0.06 per pound) associated with higher gold prices. africa mining africa mining consists of the tenke copper and cobalt mining concessions in the katanga province of the drc. the tenke mine includes surface mining, leaching and sx/ew operations. copper production from the tenke mine is sold as copper cathode. in addition to copper, the tenke mine produces cobalt hydroxide. all africa mining operations are conducted by tenke fungurume mining s.a.r.l. (tfm). in october 2010, the government of the drc concluded its review of tfm's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. in connection with the review, tfm made several commitments that have been reflected in amendments to its mining contracts, which were signed by the parties in december 2010 (refer to note 14 for further discussion). in march 2011, the amendments were approved by a ministerial council; and a presidential decree, signed by the president and prime minister of the drc, was issued in april 2011. after receiving the required government approval of the modifications to tfm's bylaws that reflect the agreement with the government of the drc, our effective ownership interest in the project will be reduced to 56.0 percent prospectively, compared to our current ownership interest of 57.75 percent. 90 table of contents operating and development activities. our initial investment in the project approximated $2 billion, and we have received loan repayments of approximately $700 million through december 31, 2011 . the milling facilities at tenke, which were designed to process ore at a rate of 8,000 metric tons of ore per day, continue to perform above capacity, with throughput averaging 11,100 metric tons of ore per day in 2011 . mining rates have been increased to enable additional copper production from the initial project capacity of 250 million pounds of copper per year to ramp up to approximately 290 million pounds of copper per year. we are undertaking a second phase of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and increasing capacity. as part of the second phase, we are expanding the mill rate to 14,000 metric tons of ore per day and are constructing related processing facilities that would target the addition of approximately 150 million pounds of copper per year. the approximate $850 million project, which includes mill upgrades, additional mining equipment and a new tank house and sulphuric acid plant expansion, is targeted for completion in 2013. the second phase of the project will be funded with cash generated from operations, and where additional funds are required, we will fund 70 percent and lundin mining corporation will fund 30 percent. we continue to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective minerals district at tenke. these analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion. future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including economic and market conditions and the business and investment climate in the drc. operating data. following is summary operating data for our africa mining operations for the years ended december 31. 2011 2010 2009 a copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 281 265 154 sales 283 262 130 average realized price per pound b $ 3.74 $ 3.45 $ 2.85 cobalt (millions of recoverable pounds) production 25 20 n/a c sales 25 20 n/a c average realized price per pound $ 9.99 $ 10.95 n/a c ore milled (metric tons per day) 11,100 10,300 7,300 average ore grade (percent): copper 3.41 3.51 3.69 cobalt 0.40 0.40 n/a c copper recovery rate (percent) 92.5 91.4 92.1 a. results for 2009 represent mining operations that began production in march 2009. b. includes adjustments for point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. c. comparative results for the 2009 periods have not been included as start-up activities were still under way. 2011 compared with 2010 copper sales volumes from our africa mining operations increased to 283 million pounds of copper in 2011 , compared with 262 million pounds of copper in 2010 , primarily reflecting higher production in 2011. consolidated sales volumes from our africa mining operations are expected to approximate 290 million pounds of copper and 25 million pounds of cobalt in 2012 . 2010 compared with 2009 copper sales volumes from our africa mining operations increased to 262 million pounds of copper in 2010 , compared with 130 million pounds of copper in 2009 , reflecting higher operating rates and a full year of production in 2010. 91 table of contents unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. gross profit per pound of copper and cobalt the following table summarizes the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of copper and cobalt at our africa mining operations for the years ended december 31. comparative information for the 2009 period has not been included as start-up activities were still under way. refer to production revenues and production costs for an explanation of by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2011 2010 by-product co-product method by-product co-product method method copper cobalt method copper cobalt revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 3.74 $ 3.74 $ 9.99 $ 3.45 $ 3.45 $ 10.95 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.57 1.39 5.58 1.40 1.23 5.78 cobalt credits b (0.58 ) (0.58 ) royalty on metals 0.08 0.07 0.16 0.08 0.06 0.19 unit net cash costs 1.07 1.46 5.74 0.90 1.29 5.97 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.50 0.42 0.78 0.49 0.41 1.03 noncash and other costs, net 0.16 0.14 0.25 0.11 0.10 0.23 total unit costs 1.73 2.02 6.77 1.50 1.80 7.23 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.06 0.18 other non-inventoriable costs (0.04 ) (0.04 ) (0.07 ) (0.08 ) (0.07 ) (0.16 ) gross profit per pound $ 1.97 $ 1.68 $ 3.21 $ 1.87 $ 1.58 $ 3.74 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 283 283 262 262 cobalt sales (millions of contained pounds) 25 20 a. includes adjustments for point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) for our africa mining operations of $1.07 per pound of copper in 2011 were higher than unit net cash costs of $0.90 per pound of copper in 2010 reflecting higher site production and delivery costs ($0.17 per pound) mostly associated with increased mining and milling activity and higher input costs. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and an average cobalt price of $12 per pound for 2012 , we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) would approximate $1.13 per pound of copper in 2012 . higher projected unit net cash costs in 2012, compared with 2011, primarily reflect lower cobalt credits, partly offset by higher projected copper volumes. africa's unit net cash costs for 2012 would change by $0.11 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of cobalt during 2012 . 92 table of contents molybdenum we are an integrated producer of molybdenum, with mining, sulfide ore concentrating, roasting and processing facilities that produce high-purity, molybdenum-based chemicals, molybdenum metal powder and metallurgical products, which are sold to customers around the world. our molybdenum operations include the wholly owned henderson molybdenum mine in colorado and related conversion facilities. the henderson underground mine produces high-purity, chemical-grade molybdenum concentrates, which are typically further processed into value-added molybdenum chemical products. the molybdenum operations also include the wholly owned climax molybdenum mine in colorado (refer to further discussion below); a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from our henderson mine and from certain of our north and south america mines that produce molybdenum; and related conversion facilities that, at times, roast and/or process material on a toll basis for third-parties. toll arrangements require the tolling customer to deliver appropriate molybdenum-bearing material to our facilities for processing into a product that is returned to the customer, who pays us for processing their material into the specified products. development activities. construction activities at the climax molybdenum mine are substantially complete, and we plan to commence production during 2012. production from the climax mine is expected to ramp up to a rate of 20 million pounds of molybdenum per year during 2013 and, depending on market conditions, may be increased to 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year. we intend to operate our climax and henderson molybdenum mines in a flexible manner to meet market requirements. the cost of the initial phase of the project, most of which have been incurred (including $388 million in 2011), approximates $700 million. operating data. following is summary operating data for the molybdenum operations for the years ended december 31. 2011 2010 2009 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production a 38 40 27 sales, excluding purchases b 79 67 58 average realized price per pound $ 16.98 $ 16.47 $ 12.36 henderson molybdenum mine ore milled (metric tons per day) 22,300 22,900 14,900 average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.24 0.25 0.25 molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 38 40 27 a. reflects production at the henderson molybdenum mine. b. includes sales of molybdenum produced at our north and south america mines. 2011 compared with 2010 consolidated molybdenum sales volumes increased to 79 million pounds in 2011 , compared with 67 million pounds for 2010 , primarily reflecting improved demand. for the year 2012, we expect molybdenum sales volumes to approximate 80 million pounds, of which approximately 40 million pounds represents production from our north and south america copper mines. 2010 compared with 2009 as a result of improved market conditions, henderson operated at approximately 90 percent capacity during 2010, compared with 60 percent capacity during most of 2009. molybdenum sales volumes increased to 67 million pounds in 2010 , compared with 58 million pounds in 2009 , reflecting improved demand in the chemicals sector. unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of molybdenum is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 93 table of contents gross profit per pound of molybdenum the following table summarizes the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of molybdenum at our henderson molybdenum mine for the years ended december 31. refer to product revenues and production costs for a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2011 2010 2009 revenues, excluding adjustments $ 16.42 $ 15.89 $ 12.78 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 5.46 4.82 5.43 treatment charges and other 0.88 1.08 1.09 unit net cash costs 6.34 5.90 6.52 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.96 0.83 0.98 noncash and other costs, net 0.04 0.03 0.04 total unit costs 7.34 6.76 7.54 gross profit per pound a $ 9.08 $ 9.13 $ 5.24 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) b 38 40 27 a. gross profit reflects sales of henderson products based on volumes produced at market-based pricing. on a consolidated basis, the molybdenum division includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. as a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. b. reflects molybdenum produced by the henderson molybdenum mine. henderson's unit net cash costs were $6.34 per pound of molybdenum in 2011 , $5.90 per pound in 2010 and $6.52 per pound in 2009 . henderson's unit net cash costs in 2011 primarily reflect lower volumes and higher input costs, including labor and materials. henderson's unit net cash costs in 2010 benefited from higher production volumes, partly offset by higher mining costs. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate unit net cash costs for henderson would approximate $7.00 per pound of molybdenum in 2012 . atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining atlantic copper, our wholly owned subsidiary located in spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes. during 2011 , atlantic copper purchased approximately 17 percent of its concentrate requirements from our indonesia mining operation and approximately 30 percent from our south america mining operations. through this form of downstream integration, we are assured placement of a significant portion of our concentrate production. smelting and refining charges consist of a base rate and, in certain contracts, price participation based on copper prices. treatment charges for smelting and refining copper concentrates represent a cost to our indonesia and our south america mining operations, and income to atlantic copper and pt smelting, pt freeport indonesia's 25 percent owned smelter and refinery. thus, higher treatment and refining charges benefit our smelter operations and adversely affect our mining operations in indonesia and south america (our north america copper mines are not significantly affected by changes in treatment and refining charges because these operations are largely integrated with our miami smelter located in arizona). in may 2011, atlantic copper successfully completed a scheduled 26-day maintenance turnaround, which had a $30 million impact on production and delivery costs in 2011. atlantic copper's major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. atlantic copper had operating losses of $69 million in 2011 , $37 million in 2010 , and $56 million in 2009 . the decline in atlantic copper's operating results in 2011 , compared with 2010 , primarily reflects the impact of the may 2011 scheduled maintenance turnaround, lower gold credits and currency exchange rate impacts. atlantic copper's operating results in 2010 , compared with 2009 , primarily reflected higher sulphuric acid and gold revenues associated with higher prices. 94 table of contents we defer recognizing profits on sales from our indonesia and south america mining operations to atlantic copper and on 25 percent of indonesia mining sales to pt smelting until final sales to third parties occur. our net deferred profits on our indonesia and south america mining operations concentrate inventories at atlantic copper and pt smelting to be recognized in future periods' net income after taxes and noncontrolling interests totaled $42 million at december 31, 2011 . changes in these deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in a net increase to net income attributable to common stockholders of $139 million ( $0.15 per share) in 2011 , compared with net reductions of $67 million ( $0.07 per share) in 2010 and net additions of $21 million ( $0.02 per share) in 2009 . quarterly variations in ore grades, the timing of intercompany shipments and changes in product prices will result in variability in our net deferred profits and quarterly earnings. additionally, as pt freeport indonesia's operations return to full operating rates, we expect to defer a significant amount of pt freeport indonesia's profit on intercompany sales until sales to third parties occur. capital resources and liquidity our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes and other working capital changes and other factors. strong operating performance and favorable copper and gold prices have enabled us to enhance our financial and liquidity position, reduce debt and pay cash dividends to shareholders, while pursuing future growth opportunities. we view the long-term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the world's economy, and will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2011 , we had consolidated cash and cash equivalents of $4.8 billion . the following table reflects the u.s. and international components of consolidated cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2011 and 2010 (in billions): 2011 2010 cash at domestic companies a $ 2.4 $ 1.9 cash at international operations 2.4 1.8 total consolidated cash and cash equivalents 4.8 3.7 less: noncontrolling interests' share (0.8 ) (0.4 ) cash, net of noncontrolling interests' share 4.0 3.3 less: withholding taxes and other (0.1 ) (0.2 ) net cash available $ 3.9 $ 3.1 a. includes cash at our parent company and north america operations. cash held at our international operations is generally used to support our foreign operations' capital expenditures, operating expenses, working capital or other cash needs. at december 31, 2011 , management believed that sufficient liquidity was available in the u.s. with the exception of tfm, we have not elected to permanently reinvest earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, and we have recorded deferred tax liabilities for foreign earnings that are available to be repatriated to the u.s. from time to time, our foreign subsidiaries distribute earnings to the u.s. through dividends which are subject to applicable withholding taxes and noncontrolling interests' share. operating activities our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes and other working capital changes and other factors. during 2011 , we generated operating cash flows totaling $6.6 billion , net of $461 million for working capital uses. operating cash flows in 2010 totaled $6.3 billion , net of $834 million for working capital uses. operating cash flows in 2009 totaled $4.4 billion , net of $770 million for working capital uses, which included approximately $600 million related to settlement of final pricing with customers on 2008 provisionally priced copper sales. higher operating cash flows for 2011 and 2010, compared with prior years, primarily reflected higher copper and gold price realizations. based on current mine plans and subject to future copper, gold and molybdenum prices, we expect estimated operating cash flows for the year 2012 plus available cash to be greater than our budgeted capital expenditures, expected debt payments, dividends, noncontrolling interest distributions and other cash requirements. refer to outlook for further discussion of projected 2012 operating cash flows. 95 table of contents investing activities capital expenditures. capital expenditures, including capitalized interest, totaled $2.5 billion in 2011 (including $1.4 billion for major projects), $1.4 billion in 2010 (including $0.7 billion for major projects) and $1.6 billion in 2009 (including $1.0 billion for major projects and the twin buttes property acquisition). the increase in capital expenditures in 2011 , compared with 2010 , primarily reflected higher capital spending for construction on the climax molybdenum mine, the underground development projects at grasberg and the expansion at tenke. the decrease in capital expenditures in 2010 , compared with 2009 , primarily reflected lower capital spending for the initial tenke development project for which construction activities were substantially complete by mid-2009, partly offset by higher spending associated with underground development projects at grasberg and the sulfide ore project at el abra. capital expenditures for the year 2012 are expected to approximate $4.0 billion (including $2.4 billion for major projects), primarily associated with underground development activities at grasberg, the expansion at tenke fungurume and the concentrator expansion at cerro verde. we are also considering additional investments at several of our sites. capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors. refer to operations for further discussion. investment in mcmoran exploration co. (mmr). in december 2010, we completed the purchase of 500,000 shares of mmr's 5 % convertible perpetual preferred stock (the preferred stock) for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million. dividends received in 2011 were recorded as a return of investment because of mmr's reported losses. refer to note 6 for further discussion. financing activities debt and equity transactions. total debt approximated $3.5 billion at december 31, 2011 , $4.8 billion at december 31, 2010 , and $6.3 billion at december 31, 2009 . during 2011, we redeemed the remaining $1.1 billion of our outstanding 8.25% senior notes. in addition, we made open-market purchases of $35 million of our 9.5% senior notes and repaid the remaining $84 million of our 8.75% senior notes. during 2010, we redeemed all of our $1 billion senior floating rate notes, and also made open-market purchases of $565 million of our senior notes. during 2009, we redeemed $340 million of our 6.875% senior notes , and also made open-market purchases of $387 million of our senior notes. refer to note 9 for further discussion of these debt repayment transactions. since january 1, 2009, we have repaid approximately $3.8 billion of our outstanding debt resulting in estimated annual interest savings of $260 million based on current interest rates. in february 2012, we sold $3.0 billion in senior notes in three tranches and announced our intent to redeem the remaining $3.0 billion of our 8.375% senior notes (refer to note 20 for further discussion). we estimate annual interest savings associated with the refinancing to approximate $160 million . on march 30, 2011, we entered into a new senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which replaced the revolving credit facilities that were scheduled to expire on march 19, 2012. this revolving credit facility is available until march 30, 2016, in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion , with $500 million available to pt freeport indonesia. at december 31, 2011 , we had no borrowings and $44 million of letters of credit issued under the facilities, resulting in availability of approximately $1.5 billion ( $956 million of which could be used for additional letters of credit). the revolving credit facility contains covenants that are typical for investment-grade companies, including limitations on liens and subsidiary debt. the credit facility also includes financial ratios governing maximum total leverage and minimum interest coverage. in february 2009, we completed a public offering of 53.6 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $14.00 per share, which generated gross proceeds of $750 million (net proceeds of approximately $740 million after fees and expenses), which were used for general corporate purposes. we have an open-market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares, of which 23.7 million shares remain available. there have been no purchases since 2008. the timing of future purchases of our common stock is dependent on many factors, including our operating results; cash flows and financial position; copper, gold and molybdenum prices; the price of our common shares; and general economic and market conditions. 96 table of contents dividends. common stock dividends paid totaled $1.4 billion in 2011 and $885 million in 2010. there were no common stock dividends paid in 2009. after suspending dividends in late 2008, the board reinstated a cash dividend on our common stock in october 2009 at an annual rate of $0.30 per share ($0.075 per share quarterly). the board authorized increases in the annual cash dividend to an annual rate of $0.60 per share ($0.15 per share quarterly) in april 2010 and $1.00 per share ($0.25 per share quarterly) in october 2010. the board also authorized supplemental common stock dividends of $0.50 per share paid in december 2010 and june 2011. in february 2012, the board authorized an increase in the cash dividend on our common stock to an annual rate of $1.25 per share ($0.3125 per share quarterly). dividends are paid quarterly as declared by the board with the initial quarterly dividend of $0.3125 per share expected to be paid in may 2012. the declaration of dividends is at the discretion of the board and will depend upon our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the board. the board will continue to review our financial policy on an ongoing basis. based on outstanding common shares of 948 million at december 31, 2011 , and the current dividend rate, our estimated regular common stock dividend for 2012 approximates $1.1 billion. during 2010, our 6 % mandatory convertible preferred stock converted into 78.9 million shares of our common stock, and in 2009, we redeemed our 5 % convertible perpetual preferred stock in exchange for 35.8 million shares of our common stock (refer to note 11 for further discussion). as a result of these transactions, we no longer have requirements to pay preferred stock dividends. preferred stock dividends paid totaled $95 million in 2010 representing dividends on our 6 % mandatory convertible preferred stock and $229 million in 2009 representing dividends on our 5 % convertible perpetual preferred stock and 6 % mandatory convertible preferred stock. cash dividends and distributions paid to noncontrolling interests totaled $391 million in 2011 , $816 million in 2010 and $535 million in 2009 , reflecting dividends and distributions paid to the noncontrolling interest owners of pt freeport indonesia and our south america mines. contractual obligations we have contractual and other long-term obligations, including debt maturities, which we expect to fund with available cash, projected operating cash flows, availability under our revolving credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. a summary of these various obligations at december 31, 2011 , follows (in millions): total 2012 2013 to 2014 2015 to 2016 thereafter reclamation and environmental obligations a $ 4,975 $ 236 $ 360 $ 272 $ 4,107 debt maturities 3,537 4 3,533 scheduled interest payment obligations b 1,974 285 571 572 546 take-or-pay contracts c 2,085 1,338 397 113 237 operating lease obligations 200 24 33 27 116 atlantic copper obligation to insurance company d 49 9 18 19 3 pt freeport indonesia mine closure and reclamation fund e 17 2 1 1 13 total f $ 12,837 $ 1,898 $ 1,380 $ 1,004 $ 8,555 a. represents estimated cash payments, on an undiscounted and unescalated basis, associated with reclamation and environmental activities. the timing and the amount of these payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities and as actual spending occurs. refer to note 13 for additional discussion of environmental and reclamation matters. b. scheduled interest payment obligations were calculated using stated coupon rates for fixed-rate debt and interest rates applicable at december 31, 2011 , for variable-rate debt. as discussed in note 20 , in february 2012, we sold $3.0 billion in senior notes and announced our intent to redeem the remaining $3.0 billion of our 8.375% senior notes. we estimate annual interest savings associated with the refinancing to approximate $160 million . c. represents contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services that are defined by us as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. take-or-pay contracts primarily comprise the procurement of copper concentrates and cathodes ( $1.1 billion ), electricity ( $338 million ), transportation services ( $293 million ) and oxygen ( $128 million ). some of our take-or-pay contracts are settled based on the prevailing market rate for the service or commodity purchased, and in some cases, the amount of the actual obligation may change over time because of market conditions. obligations for copper concentrates and cathodes provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at market-based prices, primarily to atlantic copper and the north america copper mines. electricity obligations are primarily for 97 table of contents contractual minimum demand at the south america and tenke mines. transportation obligations are primarily for south america contracted ocean freight and for north america rail freight. oxygen obligations provide for deliveries of specified volumes, at fixed prices, primarily to atlantic copper. d. in august 2002, atlantic copper complied with spanish legislation by agreeing to fund 7.2 million euros annually for 15 years to an approved insurance company for an estimated 72 million euro contractual obligation to supplement amounts paid to certain retired employees. atlantic copper had $39 million recorded for this obligation at december 31, 2011 . e. represents pt freeport indonesia's commitments to contribute amounts to a cash fund designed to accumulate at least $100 million , including interest, by the end of our indonesia mining activities to be used for mine closure and reclamation. f. this table excludes certain other obligations in our consolidated balance sheets, including estimated funding for pension obligations as the funding may vary from year-to-year based on changes in the fair value of plan assets and actuarial assumptions, and accrued liabilities totaling $128 million that relate to unrecognized tax benefits where the timing of settlement is not determinable. this table also excludes purchase orders for the purchase of inventory and other goods and services, as purchase orders typically represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. in addition to our debt maturities and other contractual obligations, we have other commitments, which we expect to fund with available cash, projected operating cash flows, available credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. these include (i) pt freeport indonesia's commitment to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the freeport partnership fund for community development, (ii) tfm's commitment to provide 0.3 percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations and (iii) other commercial commitments, including standby letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees. refer to notes 13 and 14 for further discussion. contingencies environmental the cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. at december 31, 2011 , we had $1.5 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for environmental obligations attributed to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities and closed portions of certain operating facilities. refer to note 13 for further information about environmental regulation, including significant environmental matters. during 2011 , we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) of $387 million for programs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations, compared to $372 million in 2010 and $289 million in 2009 . the increase in environmental costs in 2011 and 2010, compared with 2009, primarily related to the settlement of environmental legal matters (see note 13 for further discussion). for 2012 , we expect to incur approximately $636 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2012 operating budget. the increase compared with 2011 primarily relates to higher spending for ongoing environmental remediation activities and higher environmental capital expenditures. the timing and amount of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities, and as actual spending occurs. asset retirement obligations we recognize aros as liabilities when incurred, with the initial measurement at fair value. these liabilities, which are initially estimated based on discounted cash flow estimates, are accreted to full value over time through charges to income. reclamation costs for future disturbances are recorded as an aro in the period of disturbance. our cost estimates are reflected on a third-party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible, long-lived assets. at december 31, 2011 , we had $921 million recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for aros. spending on aros totaled $49 million in 2011 , $38 million in 2010 and $28 million in 2009 . for 2012 , we expect to incur approximately $31 million for aggregate aro payments. refer to note 13 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. litigation and other contingencies refer to note 13 for further discussion of contingencies associated with legal proceedings and other matters. 98 table of contents disclosures about market risks commodity price risk our consolidated revenues include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, gold, molybdenum and other metals by our north and south america mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our indonesia mining operations, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes and gold in anodes and slimes by atlantic copper. our financial results can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. world market prices for these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. because we cannot control the price of our products, the key measures that management focuses on in operating our business are sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flow. refer to outlook for further discussion of projected sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flows for 2012 . for 2011 , 51 percent of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, 26 percent as cathodes and 23 percent as rod (principally from our north america copper mines). substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices. we receive market prices based on prices in the specified future period, which results in price fluctuations recorded through revenues until the date of settlement. we record revenues and invoice customers at the time of shipment based on then-current lme prices, which results in an embedded derivative on our provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales that is adjusted to fair value through earnings each period, using the period-end forward prices, until the date of final pricing. to the extent final prices are higher or lower than what was recorded on a provisional basis, an increase or decrease to revenues is recorded each reporting period until the date of final pricing. accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from adjustments to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs. at december 31, 2010 , we had provisionally priced copper sales at our copper mining operations, primarily south america and indonesia, totaling 417 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average of $4.36 per pound. adjustments to the december 31, 2010 , provisionally priced copper sales unfavorably impacted consolidated revenues by $12 million ( $5 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) in 2011, compared with adjustments to the december 31, 2009 , provisionally priced copper sales that unfavorably impacted consolidated revenues by $24 million ( $10 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) in 2010 , and adjustments to the december 31, 2008 , provisionally priced copper sales that favorably impacted consolidated revenues by $132 million ( $61 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.07 per share) in 2009 . at december 31, 2011 , we had provisionally priced copper sales at our copper mining operations, primarily south america and indonesia, totaling 252 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average price of $3.44 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. we estimate that each $0.05 change in the price realized from the december 31, 2011 , provisional price recorded would have a net impact on our 2012 consolidated revenues of approximately $18 million ( $9 million to net income attributable to common stockholders). the lme spot copper price closed at $3.81 per pound on february 15, 2012 . on limited past occasions, in response to market conditions, we have entered into copper and gold price protection contracts for a portion of our expected future mine production to mitigate the risk of adverse price fluctuations. we do not currently intend to enter into similar hedging programs in the future. 99 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk the functional currency for most of our operations is the u.s. dollar. all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in u.s. dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the indonesian rupiah, australian dollar, chilean peso, peruvian nuevo sol, euro and south african rand. generally, our results are positively affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the u.s. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. following is a summary of estimated annual payments and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs: exchange rate per $1 at december 31, estimated annual payments 10% change in exchange rate (in millions) b 2011 2010 2009 (in local currency) (in millions) a increase decrease indonesia rupiah 9,060 8,990 9,420 3.9 trillion $ 430 $ (39 ) $ 48 australian dollar 0.98 0.98 1.12 250 million $ 255 $ (23 ) $ 28 south america chilean peso 519 468 506 260 billion $ 501 $ (46 ) $ 56 peruvian nuevo sol 2.70 2.81 2.89 360 million $ 134 $ (12 ) $ 15 atlantic copper euro 0.77 0.75 0.69 130 million $ 168 $ (15 ) $ 19 africa south african rand 8.12 6.65 7.42 840 million $ 103 $ (9 ) $ 11 a. based on december 31, 2011 , exchange rates. b. reflects the estimated impact on annual operating costs assuming a 10 percent increase or decrease in the exchange rate reported at december 31, 2011 . interest rate risk at december 31, 2011 , we had total debt of $3.5 billion , of which approximately 5 percent was variable-rate debt with interest rates based on libor or the euro interbank offered rate (euribor). the table below presents average interest rates for our scheduled maturities of principal for our outstanding debt and the related fair values at december 31, 2011 (in millions, except percentages): 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter fair value fixed-rate debt $ a $ a $ a $ $ $ 3,372 $ 3,632 average interest rate 7.2 % 6.7 % 6.7 % n/a n/a 8.3 % 8.3 % variable-rate debt $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ 161 $ 165 average interest rate % b n/a n/a n/a n/a 4.3 % 4.2 % a. less than $1 million. b. less than 0.01%. new accounting standards we do not expect the provisions of recently issued accounting standards to have a significant impact on our future financial statements and disclosures. off-balance sheet arrangements refer to note 14 for discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements. 100 table of contents product revenues and production costs unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. we present gross profit per pound of copper in the following tables using both a by-product method and a co-product method. we use the by-product method in our presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of our revenues are copper revenues, (ii) we mine ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of our costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals we produce, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by our management and the board to monitor operations. in the co-product method presentation below, shared costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent our metals sales volumes and realized prices change. we show adjustments for prior period open sales as separate line items. because these adjustments do not result from current period sales, we have reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. noncash and other costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, write-offs of equipment and/or unusual charges. they are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. as discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method. following are presentations under both the by-product and co-product methods together with reconciliations to amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. 101 table of contents north america copper mines product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper molybdenum a other b total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,968 $ 4,968 $ 546 $ 111 $ 5,625 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2,213 1,987 238 46 2,271 by-product credits a (599 ) treatment charges 138 132 6 138 net cash costs 1,752 2,119 238 52 2,409 depreciation, depletion and amortization 264 247 13 4 264 noncash and other costs, net 84 81 2 1 84 total costs 2,100 2,447 253 57 2,757 revenue adjustments (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) idle facility and other non-inventoriable costs (82 ) (80 ) (2 ) (82 ) gross profit $ 2,785 $ 2,440 $ 291 $ 54 $ 2,785 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,625 $ 2,271 $ 264 treatment charges n/a 138 n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 84 n/a revenue adjustments (1 ) n/a n/a idle facility and other non-inventoriable costs n/a 82 n/a eliminations and other 9 54 15 north america copper mines 5,633 2,629 279 south america mining 5,258 1,905 258 indonesia mining 5,046 1,902 215 africa mining 1,289 591 140 molybdenum 1,424 1,036 60 rod &amp; refining 5,549 5,527 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,984 2,991 40 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,303 ) (6,683 ) 22 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market-based pricing and also include tolling revenues at sierrita. b. includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs . 102 table of contents north america copper mines product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper molybdenum a other b total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3,702 $ 3,702 $ 383 $ 58 $ 4,143 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,621 1,456 195 29 1,680 by-product credits a (382 ) treatment charges 105 102 3 105 net cash costs 1,344 1,558 195 32 1,785 depreciation, depletion and amortization 256 241 13 2 256 noncash and other costs, net 131 131 131 total costs 1,731 1,930 208 34 2,172 revenue adjustments (2 ) (2 ) (2 ) idle facility and other non-inventoriable costs (87 ) (86 ) (1 ) (87 ) gross profit $ 1,882 $ 1,684 $ 174 $ 24 $ 1,882 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 4,143 $ 1,680 $ 256 treatment charges n/a 105 n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 131 n/a revenue adjustments (2 ) n/a n/a idle facility and other non-inventoriable costs n/a 87 n/a eliminations and other 32 49 17 north america copper mines 4,173 2,052 273 south america mining 4,991 1,678 250 indonesia mining 6,377 1,904 257 africa mining 1,106 488 128 molybdenum 1,205 784 51 rod &amp; refining 4,470 4,442 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,491 2,470 38 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (5,831 ) (5,483 ) 31 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,335 $ 1,036 a. molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market-based pricing and also include tolling revenues at sierrita. b. includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. 103 table of contents north america copper mines product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2009 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper molybdenum a other b total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 2,823 $ 2,823 $ 274 $ 45 $ 3,142 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,483 1,364 142 22 1,528 by-product credits a (274 ) treatment charges 102 100 2 102 net cash costs 1,311 1,464 142 24 1,630 depreciation, depletion and amortization 264 251 10 3 264 noncash and other costs, net 129 127 2 129 total costs 1,704 1,842 154 27 2,023 revenue adjustments 92 92 92 idle facility and other non-inventoriable costs (100 ) (100 ) (100 ) gross profit $ 1,111 $ 973 $ 120 $ 18 $ 1,111 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 3,142 $ 1,528 $ 264 treatment charges n/a 102 n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 129 n/a revenue adjustments 92 n/a n/a idle facility and other non-inventoriable costs n/a 100 n/a eliminations and other 30 52 16 north america copper mines 3,264 1,911 280 south america mining 3,839 1,563 275 indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 africa mining 389 315 66 molybdenum 847 660 c 49 rod &amp; refining 3,356 3,336 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 1,892 1,895 36 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (4,455 ) (4,179 ) 25 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,006 c $ 1,014 a. molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market-based pricing and also include tolling revenues at sierrita. b. includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. c. includes lower of cost or market (lcm) molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 104 table of contents south america mining product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper other total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,989 $ 4,989 $ 477 a $ 5,466 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,826 b 1,679 172 1,851 by-product credits (452 ) treatment charges 219 219 219 net cash costs 1,593 1,898 172 2,070 depreciation, depletion and amortization 258 242 16 258 noncash and other costs, net 23 21 2 23 total costs 1,874 2,161 190 2,351 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 15 (4 ) 19 15 other non-inventoriable costs (59 ) (54 ) (5 ) (59 ) gross profit $ 3,071 $ 2,770 $ 301 $ 3,071 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,466 $ 1,851 $ 258 treatment charges (219 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 23 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 15 n/a n/a other non-inventoriable costs n/a 59 n/a eliminations and other (4 ) (28 ) south america mining 5,258 1,905 258 north america copper mines 5,633 2,629 279 indonesia mining 5,046 1,902 215 africa mining 1,289 591 140 molybdenum 1,424 1,036 60 rod &amp; refining 5,549 5,527 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,984 2,991 40 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,303 ) (6,683 ) 22 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. includes gold sales of 101 thousand ounces ( $1,580 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 3.2 million ounces ( $36.81 per ounce average realized price); also includes molybdenum sales of 10 million pounds ( $13.78 per pound average realized price), which reflects molybdenum produced by cerro verde at market-based pricing. b. includes $50 million for bonuses paid at cerro verde and el abra pursuant to the new labor agreements. 105 table of contents south america mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper other total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,911 $ 4,911 $ 299 a $ 5,210 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,613 1,521 110 1,631 by-product credits (281 ) treatment charges 207 207 207 net cash costs 1,539 1,728 110 1,838 depreciation, depletion and amortization 249 237 12 249 noncash and other costs, net 19 18 1 19 total costs 1,807 1,983 123 2,106 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (14 ) (14 ) (14 ) other non-inventoriable costs (44 ) (40 ) (4 ) (44 ) gross profit $ 3,046 $ 2,874 $ 172 $ 3,046 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,210 $ 1,631 $ 249 treatment charges (207 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 19 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (14 ) n/a n/a other non-inventoriable costs n/a 44 n/a eliminations and other 2 (16 ) 1 south america mining 4,991 1,678 250 north america copper mines 4,173 2,052 273 indonesia mining 6,377 1,904 257 africa mining 1,106 488 128 molybdenum 1,205 784 51 rod &amp; refining 4,470 4,442 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,491 2,470 38 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (5,831 ) (5,483 ) 31 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,335 $ 1,036 a. includes gold sales of 93 thousand ounces ( $1,263 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 2.7 million ounces ( $20.53 per ounce average realized price); also includes molybdenum sales of 7 million pounds ( $14.12 per pound average realized price), which reflects molybdenum produced by cerro verde at market-based pricing. 106 table of contents south america mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2009 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper other total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3,768 $ 3,768 $ 167 a $ 3,935 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,512 1,429 91 1,520 by-product credits (159 ) treatment charges 206 206 206 net cash costs 1,559 1,635 91 1,726 depreciation, depletion and amortization 275 267 8 275 noncash and other costs, net 28 28 28 total costs 1,862 1,930 99 2,029 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 109 109 109 other non-inventoriable costs (31 ) (26 ) (5 ) (31 ) gross profit $ 1,984 $ 1,921 $ 63 $ 1,984 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 3,935 $ 1,520 $ 275 treatment charges (206 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 28 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 109 n/a n/a other non-inventoriable costs n/a 31 n/a eliminations and other 1 (16 ) south america mining 3,839 1,563 275 north america copper mines 3,264 1,911 280 indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 africa mining 389 315 66 molybdenum 847 660 b 49 rod &amp; refining 3,356 3,336 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 1,892 1,895 36 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (4,455 ) (4,179 ) 25 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,006 b $ 1,014 a. includes gold sales of 90 thousand ounces ( $982 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 3.0 million ounces ( $14.88 per ounce average realized price); also includes molybdenum sales of 2 million pounds ( $7.74 per pound average realized price), which reflects molybdenum produced by cerro verde at market-based pricing. b. includes lcm molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 107 table of contents indonesia mining product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper gold silver total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3,261 $ 3,261 $ 2,011 $ 97 a $ 5,369 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,869 b 1,135 700 34 1,869 gold and silver credits (2,090 ) treatment charges 156 95 58 3 156 royalty on metals 137 83 52 2 137 net cash costs 72 1,313 810 39 2,162 depreciation and amortization 215 131 80 4 215 noncash and other costs, net 33 20 12 1 33 total costs 320 1,464 902 44 2,410 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (12 ) (12 ) (18 ) (30 ) gross profit $ 2,929 $ 1,785 $ 1,091 $ 53 $ 2,929 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,369 $ 1,869 $ 215 treatment charges (156 ) n/a n/a royalty on metals (137 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 33 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (30 ) n/a n/a indonesia mining 5,046 1,902 215 north america copper mines 5,633 2,629 279 south america mining 5,258 1,905 258 africa mining 1,289 591 140 molybdenum 1,424 1,036 60 rod &amp; refining 5,549 5,527 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,984 2,991 40 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,303 ) (6,683 ) 22 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. includes silver sales of 2.7 million ounces ( $36.18 per ounce average realized price). b. includes $66 million associated with bonuses and other strike-related costs. 108 table of contents indonesia mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper gold silver total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,475 $ 4,475 $ 2,243 $ 90 a $ 6,808 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,856 1,220 612 24 1,856 gold and silver credits (2,334 ) treatment charges 270 178 89 3 270 royalty on metals 156 102 51 3 156 net cash (credits) costs (52 ) 1,500 752 30 2,282 depreciation and amortization 257 169 85 3 257 noncash and other costs, net 48 31 16 1 48 total costs 253 1,700 853 34 2,587 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (6 ) (6 ) 1 (5 ) gross profit $ 4,216 $ 2,769 $ 1,391 $ 56 $ 4,216 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 6,808 $ 1,856 $ 257 treatment charges (270 ) n/a n/a royalty on metals (156 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 48 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (5 ) n/a n/a indonesia mining 6,377 1,904 257 north america copper mines 4,173 2,052 273 south america mining 4,991 1,678 250 africa mining 1,106 488 128 molybdenum 1,205 784 51 rod &amp; refining 4,470 4,442 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,491 2,470 38 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (5,831 ) (5,483 ) 31 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,335 $ 1,036 a. includes silver sales of 4.1 million ounces ( $21.99 per ounce average realized price). 109 table of contents indonesia mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2009 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper gold silver total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3,708 $ 3,708 $ 2,527 $ 73 a $ 6,308 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,468 862 589 17 1,468 gold and silver credits (2,606 ) treatment charges 312 183 125 4 312 royalty on metals 147 86 59 2 147 net cash (credits) costs (679 ) 1,131 773 23 1,927 depreciation and amortization 275 162 110 3 275 noncash and other costs, net 37 22 15 37 total (credits) costs (367 ) 1,315 898 26 2,239 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 53 53 5 1 59 gross profit $ 4,128 $ 2,446 $ 1,634 $ 48 $ 4,128 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 6,308 $ 1,468 $ 275 treatment charges (312 ) n/a n/a royalty on metals (147 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 37 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 59 n/a n/a indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 north america copper mines 3,264 1,911 280 south america mining 3,839 1,563 275 africa mining 389 315 66 molybdenum 847 660 b 49 rod &amp; refining 3,356 3,336 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 1,892 1,895 36 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (4,455 ) (4,179 ) 25 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,006 b $ 1,014 a. includes silver sales of 4.9 million ounces ( $14.94 per ounce average realized price). b. includes lcm molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. 110 table of contents africa mining product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper cobalt total revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 1,059 $ 1,059 $ 253 $ 1,312 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 444 393 141 534 cobalt credits b (165 ) royalty on metals 24 20 4 24 net cash costs 303 413 145 558 depreciation, depletion and amortization 140 120 20 140 noncash and other costs, net 45 39 6 45 total costs 488 572 171 743 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (1 ) (1 ) 2 1 other non-inventoriable costs (12 ) (10 ) (2 ) (12 ) gross profit $ 558 $ 476 $ 82 $ 558 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 1,312 $ 534 $ 140 royalty on metals (24 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 45 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 1 n/a n/a other non-inventoriable costs n/a 12 n/a africa mining 1,289 591 140 north america copper mines 5,633 2,629 279 south america mining 5,258 1,905 258 indonesia mining 5,046 1,902 215 molybdenum 1,424 1,036 60 rod &amp; refining 5,549 5,527 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,984 2,991 40 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,303 ) (6,683 ) 22 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. includes adjustments for point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. 111 table of contents africa mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper cobalt total revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 904 $ 904 $ 218 $ 1,122 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 366 323 115 438 cobalt credits b (150 ) royalty on metals 20 16 4 20 net cash costs 236 339 119 458 depreciation, depletion and amortization 128 107 21 128 noncash and other costs, net 30 26 4 30 total costs 394 472 144 616 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 4 4 other non-inventoriable costs (20 ) (17 ) (3 ) (20 ) gross profit $ 490 $ 415 $ 75 $ 490 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 1,122 $ 438 $ 128 royalty on metals (20 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 30 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 4 n/a n/a other non-inventoriable costs n/a 20 n/a africa mining 1,106 488 128 north america copper mines 4,173 2,052 273 south america mining 4,991 1,678 250 indonesia mining 6,377 1,904 257 molybdenum 1,205 784 51 rod &amp; refining 4,470 4,442 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,491 2,470 38 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (5,831 ) (5,483 ) 31 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,335 $ 1,036 a. includes adjustments for point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. 112 table of contents henderson molybdenum mine product revenues and production costs years ended december 31, (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 a revenues, excluding adjustments $ 628 $ 637 $ 347 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 209 193 148 treatment charges and other 33 43 30 net cash costs 242 236 178 depreciation, depletion and amortization 37 34 26 noncash and other costs, net 2 1 1 total costs 281 271 205 gross profit b $ 347 $ 366 $ 142 reconciliation to amounts reported production depreciation, and depletion and year ended december 31, 2011 revenues delivery amortization totals presented above $ 628 $ 209 $ 37 treatment charges and other (33 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 2 n/a henderson mine 595 211 37 other molybdenum operations and eliminations c 829 825 23 molybdenum 1,424 1,036 60 north america copper mines 5,633 2,629 279 south america mining 5,258 1,905 258 indonesia mining 5,046 1,902 215 africa mining 1,289 591 140 rod &amp; refining 5,549 5,527 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,984 2,991 40 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,303 ) (6,683 ) 22 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 year ended december 31, 2010 totals presented above $ 637 $ 193 $ 34 treatment charges and other (43 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 1 n/a henderson mine 594 194 34 other molybdenum operations and eliminations c 611 590 17 molybdenum 1,205 784 51 north america copper mines 4,173 2,052 273 south america mining 4,991 1,678 250 indonesia mining 6,377 1,904 257 africa mining 1,106 488 128 rod &amp; refining 4,470 4,442 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,491 2,470 38 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (5,831 ) (5,483 ) 31 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,335 $ 1,036 year ended december 31, 2009 totals presented above $ 347 $ 148 $ 26 treatment charges and other (30 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 1 n/a henderson mine 317 149 26 other molybdenum operations and eliminations c 530 511 d 23 molybdenum 847 660 49 north america copper mines 3,264 1,911 280 south america mining 3,839 1,563 275 indonesia mining 5,908 1,505 275 africa mining 389 315 66 rod &amp; refining 3,356 3,336 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 1,892 1,895 36 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (4,455 ) (4,179 ) 25 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 15,040 $ 7,006 d $ 1,014 113 table of contents a. revenues and costs were adjusted to include freight and downstream conversion costs in net cash costs; gross profit was not affected by these adjustments. b. gross profit reflects sales of henderson products based on volumes produced at market-based pricing. on a consolidated basis, the molybdenum division includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. as a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. c. primarily includes amounts associated with the molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced at our north and south america copper mines. d. includes lcm molybdenum inventory adjustments of $19 million. cautionary statement our discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our future performance. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as those statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, exploration efforts and results, mine production and development plans, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, reserve estimates, potential prepayments of debt, future dividend payments and potential share purchases. the words anticipates, may, can, plans, believes, estimates, expects, projects, intends, likely, will, should, to be, and any similar expressions are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements. the declaration of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the board. we caution readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include commodity prices, mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, regulatory changes, political risks, the potential effects of violence in indonesia, the resolution of administrative disputes in the drc, weather- and climate-related risks, labor relations, environmental risks, litigation results, currency translation risks and other factors described in more detail under the heading risk factors in our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2011 , filed with the sec. investors are cautioned that many of the assumptions on which our forward-looking statements are based are likely to change after our forward-looking statements are made, including for example commodity prices, which we cannot control, and production volumes and costs, some aspects of which we may or may not be able to control. further, we may make changes to our business plans that could or will affect our results. we caution investors that we do not intend to update our forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly notwithstanding any changes in our assumptions, changes in our business plans, our actual experience, or other changes, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 114 table of contentsrisk factors 42 "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings, for further discussion. 7 table of contents bagdad our wholly owned bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in yavapai county in west-central arizona. it is approximately 60 miles west of prescott and 100 miles northwest of phoenix. the property can be reached by arizona highway 96, which ends at the town of bagdad. the closest railroad is at hillside, arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on arizona highway 96. the open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings. the bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite. the bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, an sx/ew plant that can produce up to 25 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure leach plant to process molybdenum concentrates. the available mining fleet consists of thirty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 40 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving over 200,000 metric tons of material per day. bagdad's production totaled 197 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 , 194 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 , and 203 million pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010 . bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 310 meters above sea level. the bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,750 acres, comprising approximately 21,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and approximately 600 acres of unpatented mining claims. bagdad receives electrical power from arizona public service company. although we believe the bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may set legal precedents, which could adversely affect our water rights at bagdad and at our other properties in arizona. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings, for further discussion. 8 table of contents safford our wholly owned safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in graham county, arizona, approximately eight miles north of the town of safford and 170 miles east of phoenix. the site is accessible by paved county road off u.s. highway 70. the safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite. the property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathodes. the operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. the crushed ore is delivered to a single leach pad by a series of overland and portable conveyors. leach solutions feed a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. a sulphur burner plant is also in operation at safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in sx/ew operations. the available mining fleet consists of twenty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 225,000 metric tons of material per day. safford's copper production totaled 175 million pounds in 2012 , 151 million pounds in 2011 and 143 million pounds in 2010 . safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. the safford operation encompasses approximately 25,000 acres, comprising approximately 21,000 acres of patented lands, approximately 3,950 acres of unpatented lands, and approximately 50 acres of land held by federal permit. the safford operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility. although we believe the safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the safford operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings, for further discussion. 9 table of contents sierrita our wholly owned sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in pima county, arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of tucson and seven miles west of the town of green valley and interstate highway 19. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. the sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates. sierrita also produces copper from a rom oxide-leaching system. cathode copper is plated at the twin buttes ew facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. in 2004, a copper sulfate crystal plant began production, which has the capacity to produce 40 million pounds of copper sulfate per year. the sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. the molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. the available mining fleet consists of twenty-five 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day. sierrita's production totaled 157 million pounds of copper and 21 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 , 177 million pounds of copper and 23 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 , and 147 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010 . sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. the sierrita operation, including the adjacent twin buttes site (refer to "development projects and exploration" for further discussion), encompasses approximately 37,650 acres, comprising approximately 13,300 acres of patented mining claims, and approximately 24,350 acres of split-estate lands. sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the tucson electric power company. although we believe the sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the sierrita operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings, for further discussion. 10 table of contents miami our wholly owned miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in gila county, arizona, approximately 90 miles east of phoenix and six miles west of the city of globe on u.s. highway 60. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. since about 1915, the miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. current operations include leaching by the sx/ew process. the design capacity of the sx/ew plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. the available mining fleet consists of twenty 227-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 93,000 metric tons of material per day. miami's copper production totaled 66 million pounds in both 2012 and 2011 , and 18 million pounds in 2010 . miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom will have an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. the miami operation encompasses approximately 9,100 acres, comprising approximately 8,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and approximately 350 acres of unpatented mining claims. miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the salt river project and natural gas through long-term contracts with el paso natural gas as the transporter. although we believe the miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the miami operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings, for further discussion. 11 table of contents tyrone and chino tyrone our wholly owned tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. it is located in southwestern new mexico in grant county, approximately 10 miles south of silver city, new mexico, along state highway 90. the site is accessible by paved road and rail. the tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla. copper processing facilities consist of a sx/ew operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathodes per year. the available mining fleet consists of twenty-one 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 47 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 136,000 metric tons of material per day. tyrone's copper production totaled 83 million pounds in 2012 , 76 million pounds in 2011 and 82 million pounds in 2010 . tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. the tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and 16,450 acres of unpatented mining claims. tyrone receives electrical power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe the tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. chino our wholly owned chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in southwestern new mexico in grant county, approximately 15 miles east of the town of silver city off of state highway 180. the mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. chino has been in operation since 1910. the chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. there is leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and millable primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and azurite. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides. the chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, and a 150 million pound-per-year sx/ew plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by rom leaching. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-four 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 42 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 218,000 metric tons of material per day. during 2011, we restarted mining and milling activities at the chino mine. ramp up activities at chino are continuing, with production of approximately 250 million pounds of copper per year targeted in 2014. chino's production totaled 144 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 , 69 million pounds of copper in 2011 and 34 million pounds of copper in 2010 from residual leaching operations. 12 table of contents chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,500 meters above sea level. the chino operation encompasses approximately 118,600 acres, comprising approximately 113,200 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and approximately 5,400 acres of unpatented mining claims. chino receives power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations. henderson and climax henderson our wholly owned henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of denver, colorado, off u.s. highway 40. nearby communities include the towns of empire, georgetown and idaho springs. the henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from colorado state highway 9. the henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the continental divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. the tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill. the henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 40 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our fort madison, iowa, processing facility. the available underground mining equipment fleet consists of thirteen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (lhd) units and six 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles. henderson's molybdenum production totaled 34 million pounds in 2012 , 38 million pounds in 2011 and 40 million pounds in 2010 . the henderson mine is located in a mountain region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. the main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,900 acres, comprising approximately 11,850 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and an approximate 50-acre easement with the u.s. forest service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor. henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with anadarko energy services company (and effective march 1, 2013, seminole energy services company) with xcel energy as the transporter. we believe the henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. 13 table of contents climax our wholly owned climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of leadville, colorado, off colorado state highway 91 at the top of fremont pass. the mine is accessible by paved roads . the climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the climax open-pit mine, which was commissioned in second-quarter 2012, includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. molybdenum production from climax totaled 7 million pounds in 2012 and is targeted to produce 20 million pounds for 2013, with the potential to produce 30 million pounds per year, depending on market conditions. the fleet consists of two hydraulic shovels and seven 177-metric ton haul trucks. the climax mine is located in a mountain region with snowfall averaging 23 feet per year. the highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. the operations encompass approximately 14,350 acres. climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with anadarko energy services company (and effective march 1, 2013, seminole energy services company), with xcel energy as the transporter. we believe the climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. other north america mines in addition to the currently operating mines described above, we have four non-operating copper mines ajo, bisbee and tohono in arizona, and cobre in new mexico that have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status. we also own the twin buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994 and is adjacent to our sierrita mine in arizona. refer to "development projects and exploration" for further discussion. south america at our operations in south america, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. the claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements. cerro verde we have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in cerro verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by smm cerro verde netherlands b.v. (21.0 percent), compa ia de minas buenaventura s.a.a. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the lima stock exchange (5.86 percent). cerro verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of arequipa, peru. the site is accessible by paved highway. a majority of cerro verde's 14 table of contents copper cathode production is sold locally and the remaining copper cathodes and concentrate production are transported approximately 70 miles by truck and rail to the port of matarani for shipment to international markets. the cerro verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper pitch. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. cerro verde's current operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 120,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator and sx/ew leaching facilities. leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a rom leach system. this leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. the available fleet consists of thirty-two 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 53 cubic meters and one hydraulic shovel with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 337,000 metric tons of material per day. cerro verde's production totaled 595 million pounds of copper and 8 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 , 647 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 , and 668 million pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010 . refer to development projects and exploration for further discussion of the large-scale expansion at cerro verde that would expand the concentrator facilities to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. cerro verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 2,753 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,568 meters above sea level. cerro verde has a mining concession covering approximately 157,000 acres plus approximately 25 acres of owned property, and approximately 80 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area. cerro verde receives electrical power under long-term contracts with kallpa generaci n sa and empresa de generaci n el ctrica de arequipa. water for our cerro verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. cerro verde's participation in the pillones reservoir project has secured water rights that we believe will be sufficient to support cerro verde's current operations. cerro verde has also reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar) and other local institutions to allow it to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant for arequipa, should cerro verde proceed with plans for a large-scale expansion. once cerro verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement its existing water supplies to support the potential concentrator expansion. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. el abra 15 table of contents we own a 51 percent interest in el abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise corporaci n nacional del cobre de chile (codelco). el abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of calama in chile's el loa province, region ii. the site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. the el abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. the predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. there is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization as chalcocite. the oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. there are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite. the el abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized rom leaching operation. the available fleet consists of forty 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 26 to 41 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 223,000 metric tons of material per day. during 2011, we commenced production from el abra's sulfide ores. production from the sulfide ore is replacing the depleting oxide copper production. el abra's copper production totaled 338 million pounds in 2012 , 274 million pounds in 2011 and 320 million pounds in 2010 . we are also engaged in pre-feasibility studies for a potential large-scale milling operation at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. exploration results at el abra have identified a significant sulfide resource. el abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,430 meters above sea level. el abra controls a total of approximately 151,300 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. in addition, el abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the salar de ascot n aquifer. el abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with electroandina. water for our el abra processing operations comes from pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. we believe el abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. candelaria and ojos del salado candelaria we have an 80 percent ownership interest in candelaria, with the remaining 20 percent interest owned by affiliates of sumitomo corporation. candelaria's open-pit copper mine has been in operation since 1993 and the underground mine has been in operation since 2005. the candelaria copper mining complex is located approximately 12 miles south of copiap in northern chile's atacama province, region iii. the site is accessible by two maintained dirt roads, one coming 16 table of contents through the tierra amarilla community and the other off of route 5 of the international pan-american highway. copper concentrates are transported by truck to the punta padrones port facility located in caldera, approximately 50 miles northwest of the mine. the candelaria mine is an iron oxide, copper and gold deposit. primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite. the candelaria operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a 6,000 metric ton-per-day underground copper mine, which is mined by sublevel stoping, feeding a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator. the available fleet consists of forty-eight 225-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 28 to 43 cubic meters, which are capable of moving 250,000 metric tons of material per day. candelaria's production totaled 271 million pounds of copper and 69 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 , 327 million pounds of copper and 85 thousand ounces of gold in 2011 , and 300 million pounds of copper and 76 thousand ounces of gold in 2010 . candelaria is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 675 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 32 meters below sea level. the candelaria property encompasses approximately 13,400 acres, including approximately 125 acres for the port facility in caldera. the remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface is not owned but is controlled by us, which is consistent with chilean law. candelaria receives electrical power through long-term contracts with aes gener s.a., a local energy company. candelaria's water supply comes from well fields in the area of tierra amarilla and copiap that draw water from the copiap river aquifer. because of rapid depletion of that aquifer in recent years, candelaria is expanding its sources of water supply. during 2010, we completed construction of a pipeline to bring water from a nearby water treatment facility. in addition, we have substantially completed the construction of a desalination plant and pipeline that will supply candelaria's longer term water needs. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. ojos del salado we have an 80 percent ownership interest in ojos del salado, with the remaining 20 percent interest owned by affiliates of sumitomo corporation. the ojos del salado operation began commercial production in 1929 and consists of two underground copper mines (santos and alcaparrosa) and a 3,800 metric ton-per-day concentrator. the operation is located approximately 10 miles east of copiap in northern chile's atacama province, region iii, and is accessible by paved highway. the ojos del salado mines are iron oxide and copper and gold deposits. primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite. the ojos del salado operation has a capacity of 3,800 metric tons per day of ore from the santos underground mine and 4,000 metric tons of ore per day from the alcaparrosa underground mine. the ore from both mines is mined by sublevel stoping since both the ore and enclosing rocks are competent. the broken ore is removed from the stopes using scoops and loaded into an available fleet of twenty-six 28-metric ton trucks, which transport the ore to the surface. the ore from the santos mine is hauled directly to the ojos del salado mill for processing, and the ore from the alcaparrosa mine is reloaded into six 54-metric ton trucks and hauled seven miles to the candelaria mill for processing. the ojos del salado concentrator has the capacity to produce over 30 million pounds of copper and 9 thousand ounces of gold per year. tailings from the ojos del salado mill are pumped to the candelaria tailings facility for final deposition. the candelaria facility has sufficient capacity for the remaining ojos del salado tailings. ojos del salado's production totaled 53 million pounds of copper and 14 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 , 58 million pounds of copper and 16 thousand ounces of gold in 2011 , and 66 million pounds of copper and 17 thousand ounces of gold in 2010 . ojos del salado is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest underground level is at an elevation of 500 meters above sea level, with the lowest underground level at 150 meters above sea level. the ojos del salado mineral rights encompass approximately 15,800 acres, which includes approximately 6,800 acres of owned land in and around the ojos del 17 table of contents salado underground mines and plant site. the remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface is not owned but is controlled by us, which is consistent with chilean law. ojos del salado receives electrical power through long-term contracts with aes gener s.a. ojos del salado's water supply comes from well fields in the area of tierra amarilla and copiap that draw water from the copiap river aquifer. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. indonesia ownership . pt freeport indonesia is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the republic of indonesia and incorporated in delaware. we directly own 81.28 percent of the outstanding common stock of pt freeport indonesia and indirectly own 9.36 percent through our wholly owned subsidiary, pt indocopper investama; the indonesian government owns the remaining 9.36 percent. we have established certain unincorporated joint ventures with rio tinto plc (rio tinto), under which rio tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver. refer to note 2 for further discussion of our joint ventures with rio tinto. we also conduct exploration activities in papua through two other entities: pt irja eastern minerals (eastern minerals), of which we own 100 percent, and pt nabire bakti mining (ptnbm). contracts of work . pt freeport indonesia conducts its current exploration and mining operations in indonesia through a contract of work (cow) with the indonesian government. the cow governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 foreign capital investment law, which expresses indonesia's foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. specifically, the cow provides that the indonesian government will not nationalize or expropriate pt freeport indonesia's mining operations. any disputes regarding the provisions of the cow are subject to international arbitration. we have experienced no disputes requiring arbitration during the more than 40 years we have operated in indonesia. pt freeport indonesia's original cow was entered into in 1967 and was replaced by a new cow in 1991. the initial term of the current cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. the cow allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre block a area, which is where all of pt freeport indonesia's proven and probable mineral reserves and current mining operations are located. under the cow, pt freeport indonesia also conducts exploration activities in the block b area. we expect the block b area to be reduced to approximately 413,000 acres once the department of energy and mineral resources (demr) 18 table of contents formally accepts pt freeport indonesia's relinquishment of approximately 89,000 acres. further relinquishments may result from the cow evaluation process discussed below and in note 14 . pt freeport indonesia pays royalties on copper, gold and silver under its cow, and has agreed to pay additional royalties to the indonesian government that are not required under its cow. the additional royalties provide further support to the local governments and to the people of the indonesian province of papua. pt freeport indonesia's share of the combined royalties totaled $93 million in 2012 , $137 million in 2011 and $156 million in 2010 . eastern minerals is allowed to conduct exploration in papua through a joint venture agreement under a separate cow. we expect eastern minerals' exploration area to be reduced to approximately 183,000 acres once the demr formally accepts eastern minerals' relinquishment of approximately 264,000 acres, and further relinquishments may result from the cow evaluation process discussed below and in note 14 . we have requested suspension of activities for the cow from the demr while awaiting receipt of permits from the indonesian government's department of forestry that would allow eastern minerals to resume exploration activities. we have not received a response to this request from the demr. under a joint venture agreement through ptnbm, we are allowed to conduct exploration activities under a separate cow in an area in three parcels contiguous to pt freeport indonesia's block b and one of eastern minerals' blocks. we expect ptnbm's exploration area to be reduced to approximately 200,000 acres once the demr formally accepts ptnbm's relinquishment of approximately 293,000 acres, and further relinquishments may result from the cow evaluation process discussed below and in note 14 . we have also requested suspension of activities for the cow from the demr while awaiting receipt of permits from the indonesian government's department of forestry that would allow us to resume exploration activities. we have not received a response to this request from the demr. in 2009, indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system as opposed to the contract of work system that applies to pt freeport indonesia, eastern minerals and ptnbm. in 2011 and 2010, the indonesian government promulgated regulations under the 2009 mining law and certain provisions that address existing contracts of work. the laws and regulations provide that contracts of work will continue to be honored until their expiration. however, the regulations attempt to apply certain provisions of the new law to existing contracts of work and may seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work, even though the terms of pt freeport indonesia's cow provide for two 10-year extension periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. in february 2012, a new regulation was adopted that would require mining companies in indonesia to process all minerals domestically and possibly ban export of concentrates and other unrefined minerals. pt freeport indonesia's cow includes specific provisions providing the right of pt freeport indonesia to export product, subject to giving priority to domestic smelting facilities, on a market basis. in connection with the obligations under its cow, in 1995, pt freeport indonesia constructed the only copper smelter and refinery in indonesia, which is owned and operated by pt smelting (refer to "smelting facilities" for further discussion). in january 2012, the president of indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team of ministers to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 mining law, and accordingly, to take steps to assess and negotiate size of work areas, government revenues and domestic processing of minerals. we have had discussions with officials of the indonesian government and are working cooperatively to complete this evaluation process and to obtain an extension of the cow beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the cow. the cow can only be modified by mutual agreement between pt freeport indonesia and the indonesian government. grasberg minerals district . pt freeport indonesia operates in the remote highlands of the sudirman mountain range in the province of papua, indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of new guinea. we and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in block a since 1967. the grasberg minerals district currently has three mines in operation: the grasberg open pit, the deep ore zone (doz) underground mine and the big gossan underground mine. we also have several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district, primarily related to the development of the large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the grasberg open pit. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up over several years to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the currently anticipated transition from the grasberg open pit in 2017. refer to development projects and exploration for further discussion. 19 table of contents pt freeport indonesia's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 695 million pounds of copper and 862 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 , 882 million pounds of copper and 1.4 million ounces of gold in 2011 and 1.3 billion pounds of copper and 2.0 million ounces of gold in 2010 . our principal source of power for all our indonesian operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. a combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. our indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. grasberg open pit we began open-pit mining of the grasberg ore body in 1990. open-pit operations are expected to continue through 2016. production in the open pit is currently at the 3,190- to 3,940- meter elevation level and totaled 43 million metric tons of ore in 2012 , which provided 72 percent of pt freeport indonesia's 2012 mill feed. the current equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. the larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 157 haul trucks with payloads ranging from 218 to 330 metric tons and 16 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 42 cubic meters, which mined an average of 399,000 metric tons of material per day during 2012 , 486,000 metric tons per day in 2011 and 701,000 metric tons per day in 2010 . grasberg crushing and conveying systems are integral to the mine and provide the capacity to transport up to 250,000 metric tons per day of grasberg ore to the mill and 150,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. the remaining overburden is moved by haul trucks. doz underground mine the doz ore body lies vertically below the now depleted intermediate ore zone. we began production from the doz ore body in 1989 using open stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the grasberg open pit. production resumed in september 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level. production from the doz mine averaged 44,600 metric tons of ore per day for the year 2012 ( 51,200 metric tons of ore per day in fourth-quarter 2012 ) and is expected to ramp up to the design rate of 80,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2013, following completion of ongoing panel repairs, resulting from the temporary shutdown and suspension of operations in fourth-quarter 2011 and early 2012. production at the doz mine is expected to continue through 2019. the doz mine fleet consists of over 200 pieces of mobile heavy equipment, which is capable of mining an average of 80,000 metric tons of material per day. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 44 lhd units and 20 haul trucks. each production lhd unit typically carry approximately 11 metric tons of ore. using ore passes and chutes, the lhd units transfer ore into 55-metric ton capacity haul trucks. the trucks dump into two gyratory crushers and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. during 2012 , we completed over 1,600 meters of development drifting in support of the block-cave mining method for the doz mine. the success of the development of the doz mine, one of the world's largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of pt freeport indonesia's large-scale undeveloped underground ore bodies. big gossan underground mine the big gossan mine lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. it is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. the mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. the crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. the belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. the big gossan mine averaged 1,600 metric tons of ore per day for the year 2012 ( 2,100 metric tons of ore per day in fourth-quarter 2012 ) and is expected to ramp up to full rates of 7,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2014. 20 table of contents big gossan has over 70 pieces of mobile heavy equipment, which includes 11 loaders and 8 trucks used in development and production activities. description of ore bodies . our indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the grasberg monzodiorite and the ertsberg diorite. the host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the sudirman range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. the igneous-hosted ore bodies (the grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the doz block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. the sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the doz and all of the big gossan) occur as magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. the copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district's ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. these gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. the following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported ore bodies. 21 table of contents the following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported ore bodies and their locations. africa tfm is organized under the laws of the drc. we own an effective 56 percent interest in tfm, with the remaining ownership interests held by lundin mining corporation (lundin) (an effective 24 percent interest) and la g n rale des carri res et des mines (g camines), which is wholly owned by the drc government (a 20 percent non-dilutable interest). tfm is entitled to mine in the drc under an amended and restated mining convention (armc) with the drc government. the original mining convention was entered into in 1996 and was replaced with the armc in 2005 and further amended in 2010 (approved in 2011). the current armc will remain in effect for as long as the tenke concessions are exploitable. effective march 26, 2012, the drc government issued a presidential decree approving modifications to tfm's bylaws following a review (completed in 2010) of tfm's existing mining contracts. among other changes to the amended armc, fcx's effective ownership in tfm was reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. 22 table of contents tfm pays a royalty of 2 percent of net revenues under the armc, which totaled $25 million in 2012 , $24 million in 2011 and $20 million in 2010 . the tenke fungurume deposits are located in the katanga province of the drc approximately 110 miles northwest of lubumbashi and are accessible by partially paved roads and by rail. the deposits are sediment-hosted copper and cobalt deposits with oxide, mixed oxide-sulfide and sulfide mineralization. the dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite. important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite. initial copper production commenced at the tenke mines in late march 2009; targeted copper production rates were achieved in september 2009; and the cobalt and sulphuric acid plants were commissioned in third-quarter 2009. copper and cobalt are recovered through an agitation-leach plant. an expansion of the project to optimize the current plant and increase capacity was substantially completed in fourth-quarter 2012. the expanded mill is capable of throughput of 14,000 metric tons of ore per day, and expanded processing facilities will enable the addition of approximately 150 million pounds of copper production per year. the expansion project included mill upgrades, additional mining equipment, a new tankhouse and an additional sulphuric acid plant (which is expected to be completed in 2015). the current equipment fleet includes one 10-cubic meter mass excavator, three 17-cubic meter mass excavators, three 12-cubic meter front-end loaders, eleven 7-cubic meter front-end loaders, thirty-two 91-metric ton haul trucks and eighteen 45-metric ton haul trucks. production from the tenke mines totaled 348 million pounds of copper and 26 million pounds of cobalt in 2012 , 281 million pounds of copper and 25 million pounds of cobalt in 2011 and 265 million pounds of copper and 20 million pounds of cobalt in 2010 . we continue to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective tenke fungurume minerals district. these analyses are being incorporated into future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion. future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including economic and market conditions and the business and investment climate in the drc. the tenke fungurume minerals district is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated by its higher altitudes. weather in this region is characterized by a dry season and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,518 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,110 meters above sea level. the tenke fungurume deposits are covered by six exploitation permits totaling approximately 394,450 acres. tfm has entered into long-term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with la soci t nationale d'electricit , the state-owned electric utility company serving the region. the results of a recent water exploration program, as well as the regional geological and hydro-geological conditions, indicate that adequate water is available during the expected life of the operation. 23 table of contents production data years ended december 31, copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (fcx's net interest in %) north america morenci (85%) a 537 522 437 428 626 bagdad (100%) 197 194 203 225 227 safford (100%) 175 151 143 184 133 sierrita (100%) 157 177 147 170 188 miami (100%) 66 66 18 16 19 tyrone (100%) 83 76 82 86 76 chino (100%) 144 69 34 36 155 other (100%) 4 3 3 2 6 total north america 1,363 1,258 1,067 1,147 1,430 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 595 647 668 662 694 el abra (51%) 338 274 320 358 366 candelaria/ojos del salado (80%) 324 385 366 370 446 total south america 1,257 1,306 1,354 1,390 1,506 indonesia grasberg (90.64%) b 695 846 1,222 1,412 1,094 africa tenke fungurume (56%) c 348 281 265 154 consolidated 3,663 3,691 3,908 4,103 4,030 less noncontrolling interests 723 710 766 754 693 net 2,940 2,981 3,142 3,349 3,337 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) (fcx's net interest in %) north america (100%) a 13 10 7 4 14 south america (80%) 83 101 93 92 114 indonesia (90.64%) b 862 1,272 1,786 2,568 1,163 consolidated 958 1,383 1,886 2,664 1,291 less noncontrolling interests 98 139 186 258 132 net 860 1,244 1,700 2,406 1,159 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) (fcx's net interest in %) henderson (100%) 34 38 40 27 40 climax (100%) d 7 north america copper mines (100%) a 36 35 25 25 30 cerro verde (53.56%) 8 10 7 2 3 consolidated 85 83 72 54 73 less noncontrolling interest 4 5 3 1 1 net 81 78 69 53 72 cobalt (millions of contained pounds) (fcx's net interest in %) consolidated - tenke fungurume (56%) c 26 25 20 less noncontrolling interests 11 11 8 net 15 14 12 a. amounts are net of morenci's 15 percent joint venture partner interest. b. amounts are net of grasberg's joint venture partner's interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement. c. initial copper production commenced at the tenke mines in march 2009. effective march 26, 2012, fcx's effective ownership interest in tfm was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. d. the climax molybdenum mine began commercial operations in may 2012. 24 table of contents sales data years ended december 31, copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (fcx's net interest in %) north america morenci (85%) a 532 521 434 459 646 bagdad (100%) 196 201 206 225 226 safford (100%) 175 147 155 176 107 sierrita (100%) 162 175 152 172 184 miami (100%) 68 59 17 16 20 tyrone (100%) 82 79 83 85 71 chino (100%) 132 62 35 52 174 other (100%) 4 3 3 2 6 total north america 1,351 1,247 1,085 1,187 1,434 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 589 657 654 667 701 el abra (51%) 338 276 315 361 365 candelaria/ojos del salado (80%) 318 389 366 366 455 total south america 1,245 1,322 1,335 1,394 1,521 indonesia grasberg (90.64%) b 716 846 1,214 1,400 1,111 africa tenke fungurume (56%) c 336 283 262 130 consolidated sales from mines 3,648 3,698 3,896 4,111 4,066 less noncontrolling interests 717 717 756 746 699 net 2,931 2,981 3,140 3,365 3,367 consolidated sales from mines 3,648 3,698 3,896 4,111 4,066 purchased copper 125 223 182 166 483 total copper sales, including purchases 3,773 3,921 4,078 4,277 4,549 average realized price per pound $ 3.60 $ 3.86 $ 3.59 $ 2.60 $ 2.69 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) (fcx's net interest in %) north america (100%) a 13 7 5 6 16 south america (80%) 82 101 93 90 116 indonesia (90.64%) b 915 1,270 1,765 2,543 1,182 consolidated sales from mines 1,010 1,378 1,863 2,639 1,314 less noncontrolling interests 102 139 184 256 134 net 908 1,239 1,679 2,383 1,180 consolidated sales from mines 1,010 1,378 1,863 2,639 1,314 purchased gold 2 1 1 1 2 total gold sales, including purchases 1,012 1,379 1,864 2,640 1,316 average realized price per ounce $ 1,665 $ 1,583 $ 1,271 $ 993 $ 861 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) consolidated sales from mines 83 79 67 58 71 less noncontrolling interests 4 4 3 1 1 net 79 75 64 57 70 consolidated sales from mines 83 79 67 58 71 purchased molybdenum 2 6 8 total molybdenum sales, including purchases 83 79 69 64 79 average realized price per pound $ 14.26 $ 16.98 $ 16.47 $ 12.36 $ 30.55 cobalt (millions of contained pounds) (fcx's net interest in %) consolidated - tenke fungurume (56%) c 25 25 20 less noncontrolling interests 11 10 8 net 14 15 12 average realized price per pound $ 7.83 $ 9.99 $ 10.95 $ $ a. amounts are net of morenci's joint venture partner's 15 percent interest. b. amounts are net of grasberg's joint venture partner's interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement. c. initial copper production commenced at the tenke mines in march 2009. effective march 26, 2012, fcx's effective ownership interest in tfm was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. 25 table of contents development projects and exploration we have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. our near-term major development projects, which will require substantial additional capital investment, are presented below. also refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of these projects, our other development projects and exploration activities. considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. we continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our reserves. morenci . we are engaged in a project to expand mining and milling capacity at morenci to process additional sulfide ores identified through exploratory drilling. the approximate $1.4 billion project is targeting incremental annual production of approximately 225 million pounds of copper in 2014 through an increase in milling rates from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to 115,000 metric tons of ore per day, and mining rates from 700,000 short tons per day (635,000 metric tons per day) to 900,000 short tons per day ( 815,000 metric tons per day). engineering activities are progressing and construction activities are under way. twin buttes . in december 2009, we purchased the twin buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994 and is adjacent to our sierrita mine. the purchase provides significant synergies in the sierrita minerals district, including the potential for expanded mining activities and access to material that can be used for sierrita tailings and stockpile reclamation purposes. we are conducting drilling on the property and metallurgical studies to support a feasibility study expected to commence in 2013. cerro verde . we are engaged in a large-scale expansion at cerro verde. the approximate $4.4 billion project would expand the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. cerro verde received approval of the environmental impact assessment in fourth-quarter 2012. detailed engineering and procurement of long-lead items are under way, and construction is expected to commence in 2013. el abra . we are engaged in pre-feasibility studies for a potential large-scale milling operation at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. exploration results at el abra have identified a significant sulfide resource. grasberg . we have several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district, primarily related to the development of large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the grasberg open pit. in aggregate, these ore bodies are expected to ramp up over several years to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the currently anticipated transition from the grasberg open pit in 2017. development of the deep mill level zone (dmlz) is advancing. the dmlz is expected to commence production in 2015 and the grasberg block cave mine is scheduled to commence production in 2017. over the next five years, estimated aggregate capital spending on these projects is currently expected to average $715 million per year ($565 million per year net to pt freeport indonesia). refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of these projects and the common infrastructure project. in addition to the near-term development projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district, we also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the grasberg minerals district for the kucing liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. we expect to mine the kucing liar ore body using the block-cave method; aggregate capital cost estimates for development of the kucing liar ore body are projected to approximate $2 billion (which are expected to be made between 2019 and 2031). additionally, our current mine development plans include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once the grasberg open-pit operations cease (we expect substantially all of these expenditures to be made between 2016 and 2034). 26 table of contents smelting facilities atlantic copper . our wholly owned atlantic copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the huelva, spain, port authorities, which expire in 2027. the design capacity of the smelter is approximately 300,000 metric tons of copper per year and the refinery currently has a capacity of 285,000 metric tons of copper per year. during 2012 , atlantic copper treated approximately 1.1 million metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 295,200 metric tons of copper anodes from its smelter and 274,400 metric tons of copper cathodes from its refinery. in may 2011, atlantic copper successfully completed a scheduled 26-day maintenance turnaround. major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately 50 days to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every eight years for atlantic copper, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. the next long-term maintenance turnaround is scheduled for the second half of 2013. we made no capital contributions to atlantic copper in 2012 and $202 million in 2011. no capital contributions were made for the years 2005 through 2010. we also loan funds to atlantic copper from time to time. at december 31, 2012 , loans to atlantic copper totaled $434 million . pt smelting . pt freeport indonesia's 1991 cow required us to construct or cause to be constructed a smelter in indonesia if we and the indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. in 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of pt smelting, an indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia. pt smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. pt freeport indonesia, mitsubishi materials corporation (mitsubishi materials), mitsubishi corporation unimetals ltd. (mitsubishi) and jx nippon mining &amp; metals corporation (nippon) own 25 percent, 60.5 percent, 9.5 percent, and 5 percent, respectively, of the outstanding pt smelting common stock. pt freeport indonesia's contract with pt smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (subject to a minimum or maximum rate) necessary for pt smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. pt freeport indonesia also sells copper concentrate to pt smelting (at market rates) for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. refer to note 2 for further discussion of our investment in pt smelting. during 2012 , pt smelting treated 855,500 metric tons of concentrate and produced 198,400 metric tons of copper anodes from its smelter and 197,200 metric tons of copper cathodes from its refinery. in may 2012, pt smelting completed a scheduled 30-day maintenance turnaround. major maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years for pt smelting, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2014. miami smelter . we own and operate a smelter at our miami, arizona, mining operation. the smelter has been in production for approximately 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with air quality requirements. additionally, new air quality regulations for sulphur dioxide emissions will require the miami smelter to implement additional new technologies to meet these requirements or limit its operations (refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion). the miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our arizona copper mines. concentrate processed through the smelter totaled approximately 620,000 metric tons in 2012 . in addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrates, the miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our north america leaching operations. major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) typically occur approximately every 14 months for the miami smelter, with shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. 27 table of contents other properties and investments rod &amp; refining operations . our rod &amp; refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in north america, including a refinery in el paso, texas; rod mills in el paso, texas, norwich, connecticut, and miami, arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in bayway, new jersey. we refine our copper anode production from our miami smelter at our el paso refinery. the el paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at miami. our el paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride, and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. molybdenum conversion facilities . we process molybdenum concentrates at our conversion plants in the u.s. and europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates, molybdenum disulfide and molybdenum metal powder. we operate molybdenum roasters in sierrita, arizona; fort madison, iowa; and rotterdam, the netherlands. the conversion facility located at our sierrita copper mine consists of two molybdenum roasters that process molybdenum concentrates produced at our mines and on a toll basis for third parties. the facility produces molybdenum oxide and related products. in addition, our bagdad copper mine has a pressure leach plant that processes molybdenum concentrates. the fort madison facility consists of two molybdenum roasters, a sulphur dioxide conversion plant, a metallurgical (technical oxide) packaging facility, and a chemical conversion plant, which includes a wet-chemicals plant, sublimation equipment and molybdenum disulfide processing and packaging. in the chemical plant, molybdic oxide is further refined into various high-purity molybdenum chemicals for a wide range of uses by chemical and catalyst manufacturers. in addition to metallurgical oxide products, the fort madison facility produces ammonium dimolybdate, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium heptamolybdate, ammonium octamolybdate, sodium molybdate, sublimed pure molybdic oxide and molybdenum disulfide. the rotterdam facility consists of a molybdenum roaster, sulphuric acid plant, metallurgical packaging facility and chemical conversion plant. the plant produces metallurgical products primarily for third parties. ammonium dimolybdate and pure molybdic oxide are produced in the wet-chemicals plant. we also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in stowmarket, united kingdom. the plant is operated both as an internal and external customer tolling facility. mcmoran exploration co. (mmr) . mmr is engaged in the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in the shallow waters of the gulf of mexico shelf. in december 2010, we purchased 500,000 shares of mmr's 5.75% convertible perpetual preferred stock for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million (refer to note 6 for further discussion). in connection with the purchase, we entered into a registration rights agreement and a stockholder agreement with mmr. several of our directors and executive officers also serve as directors or executive officers of mmr, and our wholly owned subsidiary fm services company (fm services) provides certain executive, technical administrative, accounting, financial, tax and other services to us and to mmr on a cost-reimbursement basis. refer to part iii, item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence, for additional information. also refer to note 1 for discussion of fcx's proposed acquisition of mmr. sources and availability of raw materials our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented approximately 21 percent of our 2012 consolidated copper production costs and included purchases of approximately 255 million gallons of diesel fuel; 6,800 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america, south america and africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 700 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 million mmbtu (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. for 2013 , we estimate energy costs will approximate 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. 28 table of contents sulphuric acid is used in the sx/ew process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulphur burners at the safford and tenke mines. sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties. our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. although we believe our mining operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. for a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. competition the top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately 50 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. we currently rank second among those producers at approximately eight percent of total worldwide estimated mined copper production. our competitive position is based on the quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. we have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. the metals markets are cyclical and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to manage our costs. labor matters at december 31, 2012 , we employed approximately 34,000 people (approximately 12,700 in indonesia, 11,800 in north america, 5,400 in south america, 3,200 in africa and 900 in europe and other locations). additionally, we have contractors that have personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 10,700 at our grasberg minerals district, 10,400 at our south america mining operations, 4,000 at our tenke fungurume minerals district, 1,600 in north america and 400 at atlantic copper. the number of employees represented by unions at december 31, 2012, and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements are listed below. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further information on labor agreements. location number of unions number of union- represented employees expiration date pt freeport indonesia indonesia 1 8,774 september 2013 tenke fungurume drc 6 3,216 august 2013 a cerro verde peru 2 1,674 august 2014 el abra chile 2 969 may 2016 candelaria chile 2 908 december 2016 atlantic copper spain 2 422 december 2011 b chino new mexico 1 344 november 2014 rotterdam the netherlands 2 57 march 2015 bayway new jersey 1 40 april 2013 aurex chile 1 41 december 2013 stowmarket united kingdom 1 39 may 2014 a. in september 2012, tfm negotiated a 4-year salary scale with union-represented employees. b. negotiations are in progress while employees continue to work under the provisions of the expired contract. 29 table of contents environmental and reclamation matters the cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. for information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to item 1a. risk factors , and notes 1 and 13 . community and human rights we have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects basic human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. we continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs basic education programs public health programs, including malaria control and hiv testing agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs cultural preservation programs water and sewage treatment projects clean water access charitable donations in december 2000, we endorsed the joint u.s. state department-british foreign office voluntary principles on human rights and security (voluntary principles). several major natural resources companies and international human rights organizations participated in developing the voluntary principles and have endorsed them. we participated in developing these principles and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. we are assessing how to best integrate the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights into our existing human rights policy. we joined a multi-industry human rights working group to help us learn from peer companies and determine the best way to integrate human rights due diligence into our business practices and to support our voluntary principles program. we believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. as part of our ongoing, annual commitment to sustainable community development, we have made significant investments in social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations. over the last three years, these investments have averaged approximately $180 million per year. nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. south america . cerro verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, cerro verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve arequipa. in addition, an agreement was reached with the peruvian government for development of a water storage and distribution network, which was financed by the cerro verde civil association (the association). the association manages contributions made by cerro verde for projects that focus on education, training, health, cultural preservation and basic infrastructure. in 2011, cerro verde reached agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, sedapar and other local institutions to allow it to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant for arequipa, should cerro verde proceed with plans for the large-scale expansion. treating this water would improve the rio chili's water quality, enhance agriculture products grown in the area and reduce waterborne illnesses. additionally, during 2006, the peruvian government announced that all mining companies operating in peru would be required to make annual contributions to local development funds for a five-year period (covering the years 2006 through 2010) when copper prices exceeded certain levels that were adjusted annually. the contribution, which expired in 2010, was equal to 3.75 percent of after-tax profits. 30 table of contents indonesia . in 1996, pt freeport indonesia established the freeport partnership fund for community development (the partnership fund), through which pt freeport indonesia has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development of the area. pt freeport indonesia has committed through 2016 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the partnership fund. our share of contributions to the partnership fund totaled $39 million in 2012 , $50 million in 2011 and $64 million in 2010 . the amungme and kamoro community development organization ( lembaga pembangunan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro or lpmak) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the partnership fund. lpmak is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local amungme and kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of pt freeport indonesia on each board. the amungme and kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. security matters . consistent with our cow in indonesia and the requirement to protect our employees and property, we have taken appropriate steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, pt freeport indonesia maintains its own internal security department, which is unarmed and performs functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department has received human rights training and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human rights policy. pt freeport indonesia's share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $52 million for 2012 , $37 million for 2011 and $28 million for 2010 . pt freeport indonesia, and all businesses and residents of indonesia, rely on the indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesian government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. this designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. the indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. from the outset of pt freeport indonesia's operations, the indonesian government has looked to pt freeport indonesia to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in papua. pt freeport indonesia's financial support for the indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol pt freeport indonesia's roads and secure its operating area. in addition, the provision of such support is consistent with pt freeport indonesia's obligations under the cow, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights. pt freeport indonesia's share of support costs for the government-provided security was $22 million in 2012 , and $14 million for each of the years 2011 and 2010 . this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion of security risks in indonesia. africa . tfm has committed to assist the communities living within its concession in the katanga province of the drc. initiatives include an integrated malaria control program, construction and operational support for six elementary schools, as well as renovation and construction of an additional four schools, installation of over 70 clean water wells, a public sanitation (latrines and hand washing) program reaching over 2,000 households, a mobile clinic for rural villages, and economic development programs supporting micro-credit and development of local entrepreneurs, contractors, and farmers. we have also made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a portion of a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems. 31 table of contents tfm has also committed to contribute 0.3 percent of net sales revenue from production to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services. this fund will be a platform to work jointly with the local government and community to further assist them to fulfill their local development plans, meet basic community needs and promote good governance. community development fund contributions totaled $4 million in both 2012 and 2011 , and $3 million in 2010 . security matters . tfm maintains an unarmed internal security department. the national government also has assigned mines police to the tfm concession area. the mines police are a division of the congolese national police and are responsible for maintaining security in mining concessions throughout the drc. tfm provides food, housing, monetary allowances and logistical support as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession area. the total cost to tfm for this support, including in-kind support, totaled less than $1 million in each of the years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 . tfm also participates in monthly security coordination meetings with host country security personnel, other mining companies, and representatives from the united nations to discuss security issues and concerns. ore reserves recoverable proven and probable reserves summarized below and detailed on the following pages have been calculated as of december 31, 2012 , in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange act of 1934. proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. the term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the term proven reserves means reserves for which (1) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (2) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (3) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. the term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. our reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees; a majority of these estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at december 31, 2012 , were determined using long-term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $750 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum, consistent with the long-term average prices used at year-end 2011 and 2010 . for the three-year period ended december 31, 2012 , lme spot copper prices averaged $3.67 per pound, london pm gold prices averaged $1,480 per ounce, and the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $14.64 per pound. 32 table of contents the recoverable proven and probable reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. recoverable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. recoverable proven and probable reserves at december 31, 2012 copper a (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) silver b (million ounces) cobalt b (billion pounds) north america 38.8 0.4 2.69 94.0 south america 38.8 1.2 0.73 110.8 indonesia 31.0 30.9 116.6 africa 7.9 0.84 consolidated basis c 116.5 32.5 3.42 321.4 0.84 net equity interest d 93.2 29.4 3.08 264.2 0.47 a. recoverable copper reserves include 2.9 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 1.4 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (refer to mill and leach stockpiles for further discussion). b. determined using long-term average prices of $15 per ounce for silver and $10 per pound for cobalt , consistent with the long-term average prices used at year-end 2011 and 2010 . c. consolidated basis reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. d. net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 33 table of contents recoverable proven and probable reserves estimated at december 31, 2012 proven reserves probable reserves average ore grade average ore grade processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt million copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % metric tons % g/t % g/t % north america morenci mill 680 0.50 0.021 5 0.45 0.015 crushed leach 417 0.52 5 0.47 rom leach 2,826 0.18 85 0.15 bagdad mill 1,016 0.34 a 0.021 1.59 225 0.30 a 0.018 1.59 rom leach 267 0.12 223 0.10 safford crushed leach 117 0.43 69 0.41 sierrita mill 2,407 0.24 a 0.026 1.43 299 0.21 a 0.020 1.28 rom leach 10 0.19 7 0.18 miami rom leach 33 0.52 8 0.43 tyrone rom leach 129 0.29 9 0.20 chino mill 106 0.57 0.04 0.010 0.48 64 0.56 0.04 0.005 0.47 rom leach 164 0.31 57 0.28 henderson mill 111 0.172 2 0.169 climax mill 74 0.183 124 0.152 cobre b rom leach 70 0.40 3 0.29 8,427 0.27 a 0.016 0.61 1,185 0.22 a 0.025 0.65 south america cerro verde mill 995 0.40 0.016 1.64 2,997 0.37 0.014 1.51 crushed leach 43 0.52 65 0.42 rom leach 22 0.21 72 0.20 el abra crushed leach 417 0.51 111 0.44 rom leach 137 0.33 60 0.22 candelaria mill 302 0.57 0.13 2.03 13 0.60 0.15 2.20 ojos del salado mill 3 1.07 0.29 4.39 2 0.83 0.16 3.36 1,919 0.44 0.02 0.008 1.17 3,320 0.37 a 0.013 1.38 indonesia grasberg open pit mill 162 0.99 1.18 2.67 96 0.75 0.63 2.05 deep ore zone mill 57 0.58 0.72 2.45 119 0.56 0.71 2.29 big gossan mill 14 2.47 1.11 15.97 40 2.18 0.92 13.09 grasberg block cave b mill 349 1.22 1.01 3.73 650 0.90 0.65 3.44 kucing liar b mill 149 1.33 1.13 7.58 271 1.20 1.03 6.06 deep mill level zone b mill 69 0.92 0.74 4.61 448 0.83 0.70 4.14 800 1.15 1.03 4.43 1,624 0.93 0.74 4.14 africa tenke fungurume agitation leach 52 3.49 0.39 67 3.09 0.32 total fcx - 100% basis 11,198 0.38 0.08 0.013 0.97 a 6,196 0.52 0.19 0.012 1.95 a a. grade not shown because of rounding. b. undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. the reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below: g/t grams per metric ton moly molybdenum rom run of mine 34 table of contents recoverable proven and probable reserves estimated at december 31, 2012 (continued) average ore grade recoveries a proven and probable processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % % % north america morenci mill 685 0.50 0.021 79.3 47.1 crushed leach 422 0.52 78.1 rom leach 2,911 0.18 44.3 bagdad mill 1,241 0.34 b 0.021 1.59 85.8 59.1 70.8 49.3 rom leach 490 0.12 24.2 safford crushed leach 186 0.42 65.9 sierrita mill 2,706 0.23 b 0.025 1.41 83.9 60.0 75.7 49.3 rom leach 17 0.19 52.3 miami rom leach 41 0.51 61.8 tyrone rom leach 138 0.28 60.1 chino mill 170 0.57 0.04 0.008 0.48 78.8 77.9 44.0 78.5 rom leach 221 0.30 42.9 henderson mill 113 0.172 84.7 climax mill 198 0.164 88.9 cobre c rom leach 73 0.39 50.7 9,612 south america cerro verde mill 3,992 0.38 0.015 1.54 86.2 54.3 44.9 crushed leach 108 0.46 79.7 rom leach 94 0.20 48.7 el abra crushed leach 528 0.49 57.0 rom leach 197 0.30 26.4 candelaria mill 315 0.57 0.13 2.03 89.2 71.9 76.3 ojos del salado mill 5 0.98 0.24 3.99 90.3 60.9 65.7 5,239 indonesia grasberg open pit mill 258 0.90 0.98 2.44 83.7 80.6 42.9 deep ore zone mill 176 0.57 0.71 2.34 86.7 77.5 64.2 big gossan mill 54 2.26 0.97 13.84 91.6 66.1 63.8 grasberg block cave c mill 999 1.01 0.78 3.54 84.2 64.8 57.2 kucing liar c mill 420 1.25 1.07 6.60 85.8 46.3 38.5 deep mill level zone c mill 517 0.84 0.70 4.20 87.1 79.0 64.6 2,424 africa tenke fungurume agitation leach 119 3.26 0.35 86.0 75.6 total fcx - 100% basis 17,394 a. recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. grade not shown because of rounding. c. undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. 35 table of contents recoverable proven and probable reserves estimated at december 31, 2012 (continued) recoverable reserves copper gold moly silver cobalt fcx's processing billion million billion million billion interest method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. lbs. north america morenci 85% mill 6.0 0.15 crushed leach 3.8 rom leach 5.0 bagdad 100% mill 7.9 0.1 0.40 31.4 rom leach 0.3 safford 100% crushed leach 1.2 sierrita 100% mill 11.7 0.1 1.15 60.6 rom leach a miami 100% rom leach 0.3 tyrone 100% rom leach 0.5 chino 100% mill 1.7 0.2 0.01 2.0 rom leach 0.6 henderson 100% mill 0.36 climax 100% mill 0.64 cobre 100% rom leach 0.3 39.3 0.4 2.71 94.0 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 1.8 a 100% operations 41.1 0.4 2.71 94.0 consolidated c 38.8 0.4 2.69 94.0 net equity interest d 38.8 0.4 2.69 94.0 south america cerro verde 53.56% mill 28.5 0.71 89.0 crushed leach 0.9 rom leach 0.2 el abra 51% crushed leach 3.3 rom leach 0.3 candelaria 80% mill 3.5 1.0 15.7 ojos del salado 80% mill 0.1 a 0.4 36.8 1.0 0.71 105.1 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 2.0 0.2 0.02 5.7 100% operations 38.8 1.2 0.73 110.8 consolidated c 38.8 1.2 0.73 110.8 net equity interest d 21.8 1.0 0.39 64.5 indonesia grasberg open pit e mill 4.3 6.5 8.7 deep ore zone e mill 1.9 3.1 8.5 big gossan e mill 2.5 1.1 15.4 grasberg block cave e mill 18.8 16.2 65.1 kucing liar e mill 9.9 6.7 34.3 deep mill level zone e mill 8.3 9.2 45.1 100% operations 45.7 42.8 177.1 consolidated c 31.0 30.9 116.6 net equity interest d 28.1 28.0 105.7 africa tenke fungurume 56% agitation leach 7.3 0.69 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 0.6 0.15 100% operations 7.9 0.84 consolidated c 7.9 0.84 net equity interest d 4.5 0.47 total fcx 100% basis 133.5 44.4 3.44 381.9 0.84 total fcx consolidated basis c 116.5 32.5 3.42 321.4 0.84 total fcx net equity interest d 93.2 29.4 3.08 264.2 0.47 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. refer to "mill and leach stockpiles" for additional information. c. consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. d. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. e. our joint venture agreement with rio tinto provides that pt freeport indonesia will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of december 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow. 36 table of contents in defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. the objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. we use a break-even cutoff grade to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. the break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. we value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. the calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. the table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of december 31, 2012 : copper equivalent cutoff grade (percent) molybdenum cutoff grade (percent) mill crushed or agitation leach rom leach mill north america morenci 0.25 0.19 0.03 bagdad 0.20 0.01 safford 0.12 sierrita 0.18 0.07 miami 0.05 tyrone 0.05 chino 0.20 0.08 henderson 0.12 climax 0.06 cobre 0.17 south america cerro verde 0.17 0.19 0.14 el abra 0.11 0.08 candelaria 0.24 ojos del salado 0.64 indonesia grasberg open pit 0.25 deep ore zone 0.70 big gossan 1.80 grasberg block cave 0.69 kucing liar 0.80 deep mill level zone 0.71 africa tenke fungurume 1.23 37 table of contents drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. the following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: average drill hole spacing (in meters) proven probable mining unit mill leach mill leach north america morenci open pit 86 86 122 122 bagdad open pit 86 86 122 122 safford open pit 86 122 sierrita open pit 73 37 120 75 miami open pit 61 91 tyrone open pit 86 86 chino open pit 43 86 86 122 henderson block cave 38 85 climax open pit 61 122 cobre open pit 61 91 south america cerro verde open pit 50 50 100 100 el abra open pit 75 120 candelaria open pit 35 70 ojos del salado sublevel stoping 25 50 indonesia grasberg open pit 32 88 deep ore zone block cave 23 58 big gossan open stope 14 44 grasberg block cave 30 78 kucing liar block cave 39 100 deep mill level zone block cave 21 80 africa tenke fungurume open pit 50 100 38 table of contents production sequencing the following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body. the chart also shows the term of pt freeport indonesia's cow. production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. the ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. in addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below. mill and leach stockpiles mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from the ore body and are available for copper recovery. for mill stockpiles, recovery is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. for leach stockpiles, recovery is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. 39 table of contents expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored continuously, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of december 31, 2012 : recoverable millions of average recovery copper metric tons grade (%) rate (%) (billion pounds) mill stockpiles cerro verde 103 0.40 81.8 0.7 candelaria 94 0.36 83.3 0.7 197 1.4 leach stockpiles morenci 5,188 0.25 2.1 0.6 bagdad 479 0.26 2.7 0.1 safford 135 0.44 19.6 0.2 sierrita 650 0.15 12.2 0.3 miami 471 0.38 2.0 0.1 tyrone 1,053 0.28 2.4 0.1 chino 1,617 0.26 4.7 a 0.4 a cerro verde 428 0.53 2.7 0.1 el abra 452 0.40 11.5 0.5 tenke fungurume 22 1.21 92.5 0.6 10,495 3.0 total fcx - 100% basis 4.4 total fcx - consolidated basis b 4.3 total fcx - net equity interest c 3.3 a. during 2012, we completed an assessment of estimated future recovery rates within the current mine plan at our chino leaching operations, which resulted in a downward revision of these rates and a corresponding reduction of 594 million pounds of estimated recoverable copper in chino's leach stockpiles. b. consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint venture partner's interest in the morenci mine in north america. c. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. mineralized material we hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. however, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $2.20 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold and $12 per pound for molybdenum. 40 table of contents mineralized material estimated at december 31, 2012 milling material leaching material total mineralized material million million million fcx's metric copper gold moly metric copper metric copper gold moly interest tons % g/t % tons % tons % g/t % north america morenci 85% 596 0.35 0.020 2,278 0.21 2,874 0.24 0.004 bagdad a 100% 523 0.29 b 0.019 50 0.11 573 0.27 b 0.017 safford a 100% 480 0.52 0.09 0.004 171 0.24 651 0.44 0.08 0.003 sierrita a 100% 1,588 0.18 b 0.022 21 0.15 1,609 0.18 b 0.021 miami 100% 11 0.50 11 0.50 tyrone 100% 98 0.28 98 0.28 chino 100% 62 0.49 0.013 22 0.30 84 0.44 0.011 henderson 100% 159 0.148 159 0.148 climax 100% 390 0.156 390 0.156 cobre 100% 39 0.51 4 0.25 43 0.48 ajo a 100% 948 0.32 0.06 0.006 948 0.32 0.06 0.006 cochise/bisbee 100% 276 0.44 276 0.44 lone star 100% 656 0.44 656 0.44 sanchez 100% 175 0.29 175 0.29 tohono 100% 204 0.70 258 0.64 462 0.67 twin buttes a 100% 445 0.40 0.025 53 0.21 498 0.38 0.022 south america cerro verde a 53.56% 595 0.37 0.015 42 0.47 637 0.38 0.014 el abra 51% 1,484 0.43 316 0.25 1,800 0.40 candelaria a 80% 68 0.55 0.13 68 0.55 0.13 indonesia grasberg minerals district a 54.38% c 2,341 0.63 0.55 2,341 0.63 0.55 africa tenke fungurume d 56% 72 3.60 18 3.22 90 3.52 kisanfu d 95% 56 2.33 52 2.94 108 2.62 total fcx - 100% basis 10,050 0.43 0.14 0.017 4,501 0.34 14,551 0.40 0.10 0.012 total fcx - consolidated basis e 9,024 4,159 13,183 total fcx - net equity interest f 7,842 3,974 11,815 a. stated tonnage also includes silver at bagdad (1.1 g/t), safford (1.6 g/t), sierrita (1.1 g/t), ajo (0.9 g/t), twin buttes (2.1 g/t), cerro verde (1.4 g/t), candelaria (1.9 g/t) and the grasberg minerals district (3.4 g/t). b. amounts not shown because of rounding. c. fcx's interest in the grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership. d. stated tonnage also includes cobalt at tenke fungurume (0.31 percent) and kisanfu (1.08 percent). e. consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for our joint venture partners' interest in the morenci mine and the grasberg minerals district. f. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 41 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of united states (u.s.) federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, exploration efforts and results, mine production and development plans, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, availability of power, water, labor and equipment, reclamation and closure costs and plans, environmental liabilities and expenditures, litigation contingencies and results, future dividend payments, reserve estimates, risks associated with the completion of pending acquisitions, and anticipated political, economic and social conditions in our areas of operations. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following. financial risks extended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and/or molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows and, if sustained, could adversely affect our ability to repay debt. fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold or molybdenum can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and common stock. our financial results vary with fluctuations in metal market prices, including copper, gold and molybdenum (for further information about the market prices of these commodities, refer to discussion below and in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ). an extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could adversely affect our financial results, or our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. additionally, if market prices for the metals we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. we may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses. substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted london metal exchange (lme) monthly average spot copper prices. accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from adjustments to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs. copper prices have fluctuated historically, with lme spot copper prices ranging from a low of $2.76 to a high of $4.60 per pound during the three years ended december 31, 2012 . copper prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the u.s. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world; available supplies of copper from mine production and inventories; sales by holders and producers of copper; demand for industrial products containing copper; investment activity, including speculation, in copper as a commodity; the availability and cost of substitute materials; and currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the u.s. dollar. 42 table of contents gold prices have also fluctuated historically, with the london pm gold price ranging from a low of $1,058 to a high of $1,895 per ounce during the three years ended december 31, 2012 . gold prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the strength of the u.s. economy and the economies of other industrialized and developing nations, including china and india; global or regional political or economic crises; the relative strength or weakness of the u.s. dollar and other currencies; expectations with respect to the rate of inflation; interest rates; purchases and sales of gold by governments, central banks and other holders; demand for jewelry containing gold; and investment activity, including speculation, in gold as a commodity. molybdenum prices also fluctuate, with the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price ranging from a low of $10.90 to a high of $18.60 per pound during the three years ended december 31, 2012 . molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: the worldwide balance of molybdenum demand and supply; rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel; the volume of molybdenum produced as a by-product of copper production; inventory levels; currency exchange fluctuations, including the relative strength or weakness of the u.s. dollar; and production costs of u.s. and foreign competitors. under u.s. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we generally are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and state agencies may also seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act (cercla) or equivalent state regulations. the failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. we are required by u.s. federal and state laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. these laws are complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. the laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance. epa and state agencies may also seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions under cercla or equivalent state regulations. in july 2009, epa published a priority notice of action identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements consistent with the degree and duration of risk associated with the production, transportation, treatment, storage or disposal of hazardous substances. in epa's semi-annual regulatory agenda published on january 8, 2013, epa indicated that it intends to propose regulations regarding hardrock mining financial responsibility in may 2014. it is uncertain how the new requirements, if promulgated, will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations. 43 table of contents the amount of financial assurance we are required to provide will vary with changes in laws, regulations and reclamation and closure requirements and cost estimates. as of december 31, 2012 , our financial assurance obligations associated with closure and reclamation costs totaled $970 million , of which $601 million was in the form of parent company guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. our ability to continue to provide financial assurance in the form of parent guarantees and financial capability demonstrations depends on our ability to meet financial tests. certain of the ratios in these tests are significantly more rigorous for companies that do not have an investment grade rating from a state-approved ratings service. we are currently rated investment grade by standard &amp; poor's rating services (s&amp;p), fitch ratings and moody's investors service (moody's). if we fail to maintain our investment grade rating, we would be subject to these more rigorous tests, in which case the regulatory agencies may require us to provide alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. depending on our financial condition and market conditions, these other forms of financial assurance may be difficult or costly to provide. issuance of letters of credit under our credit facilities would reduce our available liquidity. failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines. as of december 31, 2012 , we had limited financial assurance obligations associated with cercla-related remediation obligations, although epa and certain states are increasing the use of financial assurance requirements for such obligations. for additional information and for discussion of mine closure laws impacting our international operations, refer to the environmental risk factor "mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations." movements in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our operating results. the functional currency for most of our operations is the u.s. dollar. all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in u.s. dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the indonesian rupiah, australian dollar, chilean peso, peruvian nuevo sol, euro and south african rand. generally, our results are positively affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the u.s. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. refer to item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a summary of the estimated impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs. from time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange. however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. international risks our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries. we are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru, chile and the democratic republic of congo (drc). accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. such risks include: renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts, expropriation or nationalization of property, changes in a foreign country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism, foreign exchange controls, and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. 44 table of contents our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. our international operations must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws. although we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of violations of such laws, any violation could result in significant criminal or civil sanctions. we are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax matters with the indonesian and peruvian tax authorities (refer to note 13 for further discussion of these matters). because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia. indonesia has faced political and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. in particular, several separatist groups are opposing indonesian rule over the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. in response, indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective january 1, 2001. the manner in which those laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in indonesian politics. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a contract of work (cow) with the indonesian government. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. between july 2009 and february 15, 2013 , there were 37 shooting incidents in and around the grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which resulted in 15 fatalities and 57 injuries. the investigation of these matters is continuing. we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting the use of the roads to secured convoys. the indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt freeport indonesia is working cooperatively with the indonesian government to address security issues. during 2011, pt freeport indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. the strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. additionally, during first-quarter 2012, pt freeport indonesia experienced work interruptions in connection with its efforts to resume normal operations and temporarily suspended operations. large numbers of illegal miners have continued to operate along the river used to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in pt freeport indonesia's government-approved tailings management area. the illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. in 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the grasberg mine and mill in protest, and pt freeport indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our indonesian operations. if additional violence or other disruptive incidents occur, it could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time. 45 table of contents we will not mine all of our ore reserves in indonesia before the initial term of our cow expires. pt freeport indonesia is entitled to mine in indonesia under its cow with the indonesian government. the initial term of the current cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current cow, and there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve the extensions. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 28 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2012 , representing 34 percent of pt freeport indonesia's share of recoverable copper reserves and 46 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. we have had discussions with the indonesian government regarding the implications of the 2009 mining law, and are working cooperatively to complete the government's contract of work evaluation process and to obtain an extension of the cow beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the cow (refer to part i, items 1 and 2., "business and properties - mines, indonesia" for further discussion). the outcome of these discussions may result in revisions to certain terms of the cow. our cows in indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel. pt freeport indonesia's cow and other cows in which we have an interest were entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. our cows can be terminated by the indonesia government if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. certain forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established under our cow. although our cow grants to pt freeport indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the cow, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions on pt freeport indonesia that could affect exploration and operating requirements. at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the indonesian government prior to may 1998 ( i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt freeport indonesia's cow, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the cows will not be challenged for political or other reasons. pt freeport indonesia's cow and our other cows require that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. accordingly, if a dispute arises under the cows, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. the tenke fungurume minerals district is located in the katanga province of the drc, and may be adversely affected by security risks and political, economic and social instability in the drc. during 2009, we completed construction activities and commenced copper and cobalt production at the tenke fungurume (tenke) mine located in the drc. since gaining independence in 1960, the drc has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crises. these factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. as part of a review of all mining contracts by the ministry of mines (the ministry) in the drc, in february 2008, we received notification that the ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of tenke fungurume mining s.a.r.l.'s (tfm) mining concessions. in october 2010, the drc government concluded its review of tfm's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. in connection with the review, tfm made several commitments that were reflected in amendments to its mining contracts, which were signed by the parties in december 2010, approved by a ministerial council in march 2011, and a presidential decree was issued in april 2011. in addition, effective march 26, 2012, the drc government issued a presidential decree approving 46 table of contents modifications to tfm's bylaws. among other changes to the amended and restated mining convention (armc), fcx's effective ownership in tfm was reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. political, economic, social and security risks in the drc are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business. these risks include legal and regulatory uncertainties; exposure to an environment of governmental corruption and bribery; attempts to increase taxes or claims for fees and penalties by governmental officials, including retroactive claims; security risks resulting from political instability in the drc; and risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. in addition to ongoing conflict in the eastern region of the drc, there have been a limited number of reported acts of violence in the katanga province where the tenke fungurme minerals district is located. the safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority, and tfm works cooperatively with government officials to address security issues; however, no assurance can be given that conflict or random acts of violence will not occur near or impact tfm's operations. accordingly, the tenke fungurume minerals district and its future development projects may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our operating results, interrupt our operations or result in a loss of all or part of our investment in the drc. terrorist attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. refer to the international risk factor because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia for more information about a series of shooting incidents near our grasberg minerals district. in july 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the jw marriott and ritz-carlton hotels in jakarta, indonesia, that killed nine people and injured 53 others, including two of our indonesia-based executives. in october 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in the indonesian province of bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. in september 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the australian embassy in jakarta. in august 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the jw marriott hotel in jakarta, indonesia. in october 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in bali. indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. the same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. in november 2005, indonesian police raided a house in east java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but pt freeport indonesia's corporate office in jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the australian embassy. in addition to the bali, jw marriott hotel and australian embassy bombings, there have been anti-american demonstrations in certain sections of indonesia reportedly led by radical islamic activists. no assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence will not occur. if there were to be additional terrorist incidents or acts of violence, particularly at or near our operations, there could be no assurance that the occurrence of such events would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. operational risks our business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. these operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows, include the following: earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; the occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; 47 table of contents the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines; interruption of energy supply; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; metallurgical and other processing problems; unanticipated ground and water conditions; adverse claims to water rights, adverse outcomes of pending water adjudications and shortages of water to which we have rights; adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government authorizations, approvals or permits; delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; and the inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage. managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations also presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks. we maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which must be monitored for structural stability and leakages; our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions; and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage. in indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors. the failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both in and around our areas of operations, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in or curtailments of production. our business may also be impacted by information technology disruptions. cybersecurity incidents, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks to our technology and our operations from these information technology disruptions. however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as further described in part i, items 1 and 2., business and properties - labor matters, we are party to labor agreements with various unions that represent employees at our operations. labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and the risk exists that labor agreements may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. we cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning those issues will be concluded successfully. our production and sales volumes could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations adversely affected by significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more 48 table of contents of our operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. during 2011, pt freeport indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. the strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. additionally, during first-quarter 2012, pt freeport indonesia experienced work interruptions in connection with its efforts to resume normal operations and temporarily suspended operations. in fourth-quarter 2011, there was an approximate two-month labor strike at cerro verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. the strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three-year agreement with the union was reached in late december 2011. as of december 31, 2012 , approximately 50 percent of our labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements, and approximately 35 percent of our labor force is covered by agreements that will expire within one year. if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies. our operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. our operations in north and south america are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. at our north america operations, certain of our water supplies are supported by surface water rights, which give us the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. in arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which, for over 30 years, the arizona courts have been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems, which affect four of our operating mines (morenci, safford, sierrita and miami). the legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our bagdad mine. groundwater has historically been treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. however, court decisions in one of the adjudications have concluded that groundwater pumping may affect surface water, thereby bringing the pumping within the jurisdiction of the general stream adjudications. the effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water remains contested, however, and is currently a primary focus of one of those adjudications. because groundwater accounts for approximately 40 percent of arizona's water supplies, the re-characterization of any significant portion of that water as surface water could jeopardize the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us, to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a significant user of groundwater in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings. in colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority and administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the climax molybdenum mine. in new mexico, our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated. water for our cerro verde mining operation comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. due to occasional drought conditions and the possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our current and planned cerro verde operations. cerro verde has been conducting water studies to assess opportunities for additional supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. cerro verde has reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar) and other local institutions to allow it to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant, should cerro verde proceed with plans for a large-scale concentrator expansion. once cerro verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement its existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion. 49 table of contents water for our el abra mining operation comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. we believe that el abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations, however, a change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our sulfide groundwater pumping, which is permitted through 2021. el abra is also conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the pacific ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing. water for our candelaria and ojos del salado mining operations is drawn from the copiap river aquifer. because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, candelaria is expanding its sources of water supply. during 2010, we completed construction of a pipeline to convey reclaimed water from a nearby water treatment facility to our candelaria mine. in addition, we have substantially completed the construction of a desalination plant and pipeline that will supply candelaria's longer term water needs. although each of our operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, some supplies are subject to unresolved claims by others, and additional supplies that may be needed to support expanded operations are expensive, in short supply, and can be difficult to access because of logistical and legal obstacles. moreover, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. the loss of a water right, loss of continued use of a currently available water supply, or inability to expand our water resources could materially and adversely affect our mining operations, by significantly increasing the cost of water, forcing us to curtail operations, preventing us from expanding operations or forcing premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations. increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas. for the year 2012 , energy represented approximately 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. an inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. our consolidated copper production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, tires, explosives and diluents. the prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. also refer to the environmental risk factor regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets for discussion of the potential for increased energy costs. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. the grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. in april 2011, two pt freeport indonesia employees died in an accident when a portion of the deep ore zone (doz) mine experienced an uncontrolled muck flow. the area was temporarily shut down during the investigation of the accident. in september 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our grasberg open pit. there were no injuries or property damage. the event caused a delay in our access to the 50 table of contents high-grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future periods. in march 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting pt freeport indonesia's mining facilities. three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. the material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. as a result of investigations by pt freeport indonesia and the indonesian department of energy and mineral resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. the existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded. in october 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. in december 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. the events caused us to alter our short-term mine sequencing plans; normal production activities resumed in second-quarter 2004. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our africa mining operation involves additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the drc. the tenke fungurume minerals district is located in a remote area of the drc and is subject to additional challenges, including: severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; challenges in obtaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria, cholera and hiv. additionally, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the tenke mines approximately 1,900 miles to ports in south africa. the tenke fungurume minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. the volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange age of 1934, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth or our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. in addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. a sustained decrease in commodity prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. these factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. there are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from mill and leach stockpiles. the quantity of copper delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated 51 table of contents copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. accordingly, the volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and copper recovered from stockpiles may be less than anticipated. we must continually replace reserves depleted by production. our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long-term viability. produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. exploration is highly speculative in nature. our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. as a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. there is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects. the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and estimated future prices of the relevant minerals. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can adversely affect project economics. moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems. therefore, it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion of our current development projects. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. these development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. it is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. it is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in capital expenditures. the development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the following: unanticipated geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic conditions; challenges related to hiring and training personnel required for underground mining activities; larger than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping mining methods; and unanticipated delays in the development of major access and supporting infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical components and longer than planned construction periods. some of these risks could result in delays to production startup and a loss or reduction in minable tons. there can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 52 table of contents environmental risks our operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulation. compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain our expansion opportunities. our mining, development, exploration and production activities, both in the u.s. and internationally, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing occupational health, mine safety, generation, transportation and disposal of hazardous toxic substances, waste disposal, air emissions and water discharges, remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. for example, under the clean air act, epa recently lowered the national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for sulfur dioxide. the area around our smelter in miami, arizona, has sulfur dioxide levels in excess of the new standard, and the smelter is the primary contributor to those levels. as a result, we will be required to limit the smelter's operations or install expensive pollution control equipment that will significantly reduce those emissions. additionally, any expansion of the smelter will be constrained by, or be significantly more expensive because of, these new standards. in addition, epa has recently proposed rules that, if effective, would reclassify some mineral processing materials as hazardous waste under the federal resource conservation and recovery act, which would reverse long-standing epa regulatory determinations and subject the industry to significant new and costly waste management requirements. we also believe there has generally been more aggressive application of the endangered species act, resulting in increases in the number of protected species and expansive designations of their critical habitat, which may make obtaining federal permits and securing additional water resources more time-consuming, unpredictable and expensive. other regulation under consideration by environmental regulatory agencies include provisions that would impose additional restrictions on waterway discharges, and regulate environmental impacts of radioactive materials associated with mining operations and expand regulation of solid wastes, among other things. adoption of these or similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs and constrain our u.s. expansion opportunities. in addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc), and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean-up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2012 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects (including damaged natural resource claims) in the u.s. in 28 states. 53 table of contents at december 31, 2012 , we had $1.2 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributed to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago; our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. in addition, remediation standards imposed by epa and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time. for example, in some cases, epa has applied increasingly costly requirements regarding remediation of contaminated water bottom sediments. continued application of these types of standards could have an adverse impact on our ultimate cleanup costs at the newtown creek site in new york city. additionally, imposition of more stringent remediation standards poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. refer to note 13 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. during 2012 , we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $612 million , compared with $387 million in 2011 and $372 million in 2010 . for 2013 , we expect to incur approximately $600 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities, the settlement of environmental matters and as actual spending occurs. an adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us. as described in note 13, we are a defendant in numerous, and in some cases significant, litigation matters involving alleged environmental contamination, alleged environmental toxic torts and complex interpretations of environmental regulations. an adverse ruling in one or more of those matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesian government, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. 54 table of contents another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. from time to time, certain indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. in connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the indonesian government, we committed to perform a one-time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. we completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the indonesian government in december 2002. we developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the indonesian government, academia and non-governmental organizations. the risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents. since 2005, pt freeport indonesia has participated in the indonesian government's proper (program for pollution control, evaluation and rating) program. the last proper audit where the indonesian ministry of environment issued pt freeport indonesia a rating was in 2010, for which a blue rating was issued acknowledging pt freeport indonesia's environmental management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in indonesia. in 2011, a proper audit of pt freeport indonesia was performed, however the indonesian ministry of environment did not issue a rating for pt freeport indonesia. a proper audit of pt freeport indonesia was not performed in 2012 because of security conditions that existed. mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. our u.s. operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined-land reclamation obligations. these requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. the laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. in general, our u.s. mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. it is uncertain how potential epa requirements for financial assurance will affect the timing of periodic closure cost reviews or the scope of closure activities. in july 2011, the chilean senate passed legislation regulating mine closure, which became effective november 2012 and established new requirements for closure plans. our chilean operations will be required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. revised closure plans for our chilean mine sites are due in november 2014. cerro verde is subject to regulation under the mine closure law administered by the peruvian ministry of energy and mines. under the closure regulations, mines must submit a closure plan that includes the reclamation methods, closure cost estimates, methods of control and verification, closure and post-closure plans and financial assurance. the updated closure plan for the cerro verde mine expansion must be submitted to the peruvian regulatory authorities in december 2013. in december 2009, pt freeport indonesia submitted its revised mine closure plan to the department of energy and minerals resources for review and has addressed comments received during the course of this review process. in december 2010, the president of indonesia issued a regulation regarding mine reclamation and closure, which requires a company to provide a mine closure guarantee in the form of a time deposit placed in a state-owned bank in indonesia. in accordance with its cow, pt freeport indonesia is working with the department of energy and 55 table of contents mineral resources to review these requirements, including discussions of other options for the mine closure guarantee. we cannot predict at this time the cost of these closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required, which amounts could be substantial. at december 31, 2012 , we had asset retirement obligations (aros) of $1.1 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. aro cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in closure regulations, changes in engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, changes in mine plans, inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. refer to note 13 for further discussion. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets. many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, contribute to climate change. in 2012, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were approximately 10 million metric tons, divided between direct (59 percent) and indirect (41 percent) emissions. most of our direct emissions are from fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. indirect emissions are generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. our direct emissions are in indonesia (54 percent), north america (28 percent), south america (11 percent), and europe and africa (7 percent). our indirect emissions are in north america (73 percent), south america (24 percent) and europe (3 percent). a number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory initiatives designed to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in june 2010, the epa issued final regulations under the clean air act for the control of greenhouse gases from new large stationary sources and major modifications to existing large stationary sources. this and other federal greenhouse gas regulations have been challenged in judicial proceedings. certain of our operations, including the miami smelter, could be materially affected by these regulations if plant expansions exceed applicable thresholds. in addition, anticipated future epa regulations covering large fossil fuel fired power plants may materially increase energy costs at our operations. the u.s. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our u.s. operations. the december 1997 kyoto protocol established greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that ratified the protocol. in 2012, parties to the kyoto protocol agreed to a second commitment period beyond the original december 2012 expiration date. although the u.s. has not ratified the kyoto protocol, the u.s. continues to participate in global climate summits that may lead to an agreement in the future. since 2006, we have participated in the carbon disclosure project, which is a voluntary initiative that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction efforts. in 2009, we formed a multi-departmental greenhouse gas task force to pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including evaluating potential reductions in emissions from our haul trucks. however, because of longer and steeper mining hauls as our open pits expand and deepen, and increases in use of electricity as we increase production capacity, we expect increases in our total greenhouse gas emissions. from a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to experience increased costs relating to our greenhouse gas emissions as a result of regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. in addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. we cannot predict the magnitude of any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. these may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. these effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. 56 table of contents other risks if market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long-lived assets may be impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material. declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, could cause us to record lower of cost or market (lcm) inventory adjustments and could also result in a write-down of the carrying value of long-lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders' equity, but would have no effect on cash flows. during fourth-quarter 2008, we concluded that the then-current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment. as a result, we recorded significant impairment and lcm inventory charges. refer to item 6. "selected financial data" for a summary of these charges. unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to the litigation described in note 13 and in item 3. legal proceedings and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. if any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. achieving this objective may be difficult because of many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees to maintain our current business and support our future projects. a loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected. our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. cash at our international operations is also subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. 57 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize our board of directors (the board) to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit removal of directors for cause only; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the board. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders. risks associated with the proposed acquisitions of plains exploration &amp; production company (pxp) and mcmoran exploration co. (mmr) our proposed acquisitions of pxp and mmr may present certain risks to our business and operations. on december 5, 2012, we announced definitive merger agreements to acquire pxp and mmr. the proposed acquisitions present numerous risks, including the following: the possibility that the expected benefits of each transaction may not materialize in the timeframe expected or at all, or may be more costly to achieve than anticipated; that either or both of the transactions may not be timely completed, or completed at all; our ability to obtain financing required in connection with the transactions, and the increase in our indebtedness that would result from entering into such financing; that prior to the completion of the transactions or thereafter, our business or the respective businesses of pxp and mmr may not perform as expected due to transaction-related uncertainty or other factors; that the parties are unable to successfully implement integration strategies following closing of the transactions; that required approvals to consummate the mergers, including the required approvals of the stockholders of each of pxp and mmr, are not obtained or other closing conditions are not satisfied in a timely manner or at all; 58 table of contents stockholder reaction to the proposed acquisitions; risks associated with the ownership and operation of oil and gas assets and the other assets of each of pxp and mmr, which differ from those in the mining industry and include, among others, risks relating to oil and gas exploration, drilling and development (including ultra deep drilling) and operating in the deep water of the gulf of mexico; our ability to retain key employees of each of the parties; and whether or not one or both of the transactions are completed, the proposed acquisitions may require diversion of the attention of our management and other key employees from ongoing business activities, including the pursuit of other opportunities that could be beneficial to us. in addition, we have incurred substantial costs in connection with the proposed acquisitions, a significant amount of which are required to be paid whether or not the transactions are completed. one or more of these factors could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. refer to note 1 for further discussion of the proposed acquisitions of pxp and mmr. pending litigation against us, pxp and mmr could result in injunctions preventing completion of either or both of the proposed acquisitions and the payment of damages in the event one or both of the transactions is completed. in connection with the proposed acquisitions, stockholders of each of fcx, pxp and mmr have filed numerous derivative lawsuits against us and class action lawsuits against us, pxp and mmr, among others. among other remedies, the plaintiffs in these lawsuits seek to enjoin the proposed acquisitions. we may be subject to additional stockholder lawsuits during the pendency of the proposed acquisitions. these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of one or both of the proposed acquisitions and result in substantial costs to us, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors. the defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. refer to note 13 for further discussion of shareholder litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. consummating the pxp merger, but failing to complete the mmr merger could have consequences under the clayton antitrust act (the clayton act) and negatively affect the combined company's future business and financial results. if the pxp merger is completed, but the mmr merger is not completed, then the boards of directors and executive management of fcx and mmr may need to be reconstituted in order to comply with the clayton act. subject to certain de minimis exceptions, section 8 of the clayton act prohibits individuals from serving as directors or officers of two competing corporations when each corporation has capital, surplus and undivided profits in excess of $27.8 million. currently, fcx and mmr share overlapping board and management members, an overlap that is expected to continue even after the pxp merger is consummated, unless the mmr merger is also consummated. in the event that the pxp merger closes without the mmr merger also closing, the u.s. department of justice or federal trade commission could investigate whether the combined company and mmr are competitors for purposes of the clayton act, and could seek to eliminate the interlock by securing resignation of the interlocked individuals or by pursuing injunctive relief. private plaintiffs could also bring suits against the combined company seeking an injunction against the interlock. the potential distraction from operations, loss of key executive talent and cost of litigation could adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition or result of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a summary of the estimated impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs. from time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange. however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. international risks our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in foreign countries. we are a global mining company with substantial assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru, chile and the democratic republic of congo (drc). accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in foreign countries, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. such risks include: renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts, expropriation or nationalization of property, changes in a foreign country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism, foreign exchange controls, and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. 44 table of contents our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. could be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. our international operations must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws. although we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of violations of such laws, any violation could result in significant criminal or civil sanctions. we are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax matters with the indonesian and peruvian tax authorities (refer to note 13 for further discussion of these matters). because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia. indonesia has faced political and social uncertainties, including separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. in particular, several separatist groups are opposing indonesian rule over the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located, and have sought political independence for the province. in response, indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective january 1, 2001. the manner in which those laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy that they may bring to individual provinces, including papua, are uncertain and are ongoing issues in indonesian politics. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our activities. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises and are conducted pursuant to a contract of work (cow) with the indonesian government. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our operations are occasionally the subject of criticism in the indonesian press and in political debates, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. between july 2009 and february 15, 2013 , there were 37 shooting incidents in and around the grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which resulted in 15 fatalities and 57 injuries. the investigation of these matters is continuing. we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting the use of the roads to secured convoys. the indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt freeport indonesia is working cooperatively with the indonesian government to address security issues. during 2011, pt freeport indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. the strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. additionally, during first-quarter 2012, pt freeport indonesia experienced work interruptions in connection with its efforts to resume normal operations and temporarily suspended operations. large numbers of illegal miners have continued to operate along the river used to transport the tailings from the mill to the lowlands in pt freeport indonesia's government-approved tailings management area. the illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted to move them away from our facilities. in 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the grasberg mine and mill in protest, and pt freeport indonesia temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our indonesian operations. if additional violence or other disruptive incidents occur, it could adversely affect our business and profitability in ways that we cannot predict at this time. 45 table of contents we will not mine all of our ore reserves in indonesia before the initial term of our cow expires. pt freeport indonesia is entitled to mine in indonesia under its cow with the indonesian government. the initial term of the current cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 and our current mine plan has been developed, and our operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current cow, and there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve the extensions. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 28 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2012 , representing 34 percent of pt freeport indonesia's share of recoverable copper reserves and 46 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. we have had discussions with the indonesian government regarding the implications of the 2009 mining law, and are working cooperatively to complete the government's contract of work evaluation process and to obtain an extension of the cow beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the cow (refer to part i, items 1 and 2., "business and properties - mines, indonesia" for further discussion). the outcome of these discussions may result in revisions to certain terms of the cow. our cows in indonesia are subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel. pt freeport indonesia's cow and other cows in which we have an interest were entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. our cows can be terminated by the indonesia government if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. certain forestry laws and designations as well as prevailing environmental laws and regulations may conflict with or overlap with the mining rights established under our cow. although our cow grants to pt freeport indonesia the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the cow, certain government agencies could seek to impose additional restrictions on pt freeport indonesia that could affect exploration and operating requirements. at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the indonesian government prior to may 1998 ( i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt freeport indonesia's cow, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the cows will not be challenged for political or other reasons. pt freeport indonesia's cow and our other cows require that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. accordingly, if a dispute arises under the cows, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of a foreign court or arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. the tenke fungurume minerals district is located in the katanga province of the drc, and may be adversely affected by security risks and political, economic and social instability in the drc. during 2009, we completed construction activities and commenced copper and cobalt production at the tenke fungurume (tenke) mine located in the drc. since gaining independence in 1960, the drc has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crises. these factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. as part of a review of all mining contracts by the ministry of mines (the ministry) in the drc, in february 2008, we received notification that the ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of tenke fungurume mining s.a.r.l.'s (tfm) mining concessions. in october 2010, the drc government concluded its review of tfm's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. in connection with the review, tfm made several commitments that were reflected in amendments to its mining contracts, which were signed by the parties in december 2010, approved by a ministerial council in march 2011, and a presidential decree was issued in april 2011. in addition, effective march 26, 2012, the drc government issued a presidential decree approving 46 table of contents modifications to tfm's bylaws. among other changes to the amended and restated mining convention (armc), fcx's effective ownership in tfm was reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. political, economic, social and security risks in the drc are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business. these risks include legal and regulatory uncertainties; exposure to an environment of governmental corruption and bribery; attempts to increase taxes or claims for fees and penalties by governmental officials, including retroactive claims; security risks resulting from political instability in the drc; and risk of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. in addition to ongoing conflict in the eastern region of the drc, there have been a limited number of reported acts of violence in the katanga province where the tenke fungurme minerals district is located. the safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority, and tfm works cooperatively with government officials to address security issues; however, no assurance can be given that conflict or random acts of violence will not occur near or impact tfm's operations. accordingly, the tenke fungurume minerals district and its future development projects may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our operating results, interrupt our operations or result in a loss of all or part of our investment in the drc. terrorist attacks and violence near our operations and throughout the world and the potential for additional future terrorist acts and violence have created economic and political uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business. refer to the international risk factor because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia for more information about a series of shooting incidents near our grasberg minerals district. in july 2009, two suicide bombers set off explosions inside of the jw marriott and ritz-carlton hotels in jakarta, indonesia, that killed nine people and injured 53 others, including two of our indonesia-based executives. in october 2005, three suicide bombers killed 19 people and wounded over 100 in the indonesian province of bali, which is 1,500 miles west of our mining and milling operations. in september 2004, 11 people were killed and over 200 injured by a car bomb detonated in front of the australian embassy in jakarta. in august 2003, 12 people were killed and over 100 were injured by a car bomb detonated outside of the jw marriott hotel in jakarta, indonesia. in october 2002, a bombing killed 202 people in bali. indonesian authorities arrested 35 people in connection with this bombing and 29 of those arrested have been tried and convicted. the same international terrorist organizations are suspected in each of these incidents. in november 2005, indonesian police raided a house in east java that resulted in the death of other accused terrorists linked to the bombings discussed above. our mining and milling operations were not interrupted by these incidents, but pt freeport indonesia's corporate office in jakarta had to relocate for several months following the bombing in front of the australian embassy. in addition to the bali, jw marriott hotel and australian embassy bombings, there have been anti-american demonstrations in certain sections of indonesia reportedly led by radical islamic activists. no assurance can be given that additional terrorist incidents and acts of violence will not occur. if there were to be additional terrorist incidents or acts of violence, particularly at or near our operations, there could be no assurance that the occurrence of such events would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. operational risks our business is subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control. these operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows, include the following: earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; the occurrence of unusual weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; 47 table of contents the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines; interruption of energy supply; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; metallurgical and other processing problems; unanticipated ground and water conditions; adverse claims to water rights, adverse outcomes of pending water adjudications and shortages of water to which we have rights; adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government authorizations, approvals or permits; delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; and the inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage. managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations also presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks. we maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which must be monitored for structural stability and leakages; our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions; and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage. in indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors. the failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both in and around our areas of operations, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in or curtailments of production. our business may also be impacted by information technology disruptions. cybersecurity incidents, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks to our technology and our operations from these information technology disruptions. however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as further described in part i, items 1 and 2., business and properties - labor matters, we are party to labor agreements with various unions that represent employees at our operations. labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and the risk exists that labor agreements may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. we cannot predict what issues may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees and, if raised, whether negotiations concerning those issues will be concluded successfully. our production and sales volumes could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations adversely affected by significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more 48 table of contents of our operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. during 2011, pt freeport indonesia was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. the strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. additionally, during first-quarter 2012, pt freeport indonesia experienced work interruptions in connection with its efforts to resume normal operations and temporarily suspended operations. in fourth-quarter 2011, there was an approximate two-month labor strike at cerro verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. the strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three-year agreement with the union was reached in late december 2011. as of december 31, 2012 , approximately 50 percent of our labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements, and approximately 35 percent of our labor force is covered by agreements that will expire within one year. if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies. our operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. our operations in north and south america are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. at our north america operations, certain of our water supplies are supported by surface water rights, which give us the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. in arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which, for over 30 years, the arizona courts have been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems, which affect four of our operating mines (morenci, safford, sierrita and miami). the legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our bagdad mine. groundwater has historically been treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. however, court decisions in one of the adjudications have concluded that groundwater pumping may affect surface water, thereby bringing the pumping within the jurisdiction of the general stream adjudications. the effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water remains contested, however, and is currently a primary focus of one of those adjudications. because groundwater accounts for approximately 40 percent of arizona's water supplies, the re-characterization of any significant portion of that water as surface water could jeopardize the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us, to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a significant user of groundwater in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings. in colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority and administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the climax molybdenum mine. in new mexico, our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated. water for our cerro verde mining operation comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. due to occasional drought conditions and the possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our current and planned cerro verde operations. cerro verde has been conducting water studies to assess opportunities for additional supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. cerro verde has reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar) and other local institutions to allow it to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant, should cerro verde proceed with plans for a large-scale concentrator expansion. once cerro verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement its existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion. 49 table of contents water for our el abra mining operation comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. we believe that el abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations, however, a change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our sulfide groundwater pumping, which is permitted through 2021. el abra is also conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the pacific ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing. water for our candelaria and ojos del salado mining operations is drawn from the copiap river aquifer. because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, candelaria is expanding its sources of water supply. during 2010, we completed construction of a pipeline to convey reclaimed water from a nearby water treatment facility to our candelaria mine. in addition, we have substantially completed the construction of a desalination plant and pipeline that will supply candelaria's longer term water needs. although each of our operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, some supplies are subject to unresolved claims by others, and additional supplies that may be needed to support expanded operations are expensive, in short supply, and can be difficult to access because of logistical and legal obstacles. moreover, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. the loss of a water right, loss of continued use of a currently available water supply, or inability to expand our water resources could materially and adversely affect our mining operations, by significantly increasing the cost of water, forcing us to curtail operations, preventing us from expanding operations or forcing premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations. increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flow. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas. for the year 2012 , energy represented approximately 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. an inability to procure sufficient energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our profits, cash flow and growth opportunities. our consolidated copper production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we consume or use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, tires, explosives and diluents. the prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. increases in the cost of these commodities could make our operations less profitable. increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. also refer to the environmental risk factor regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets for discussion of the potential for increased energy costs. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. the grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. because of these conditions, we have had to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. in april 2011, two pt freeport indonesia employees died in an accident when a portion of the deep ore zone (doz) mine experienced an uncontrolled muck flow. the area was temporarily shut down during the investigation of the accident. in september 2008, a small scale failure encompassing approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred at our grasberg open pit. there were no injuries or property damage. the event caused a delay in our access to the 50 table of contents high-grade section of the open pit and, as a result, a portion of the metal expected to be mined in the second half of 2008 was deferred to future periods. in march 2006, a mud/topsoil slide involving approximately 75,000 metric tons of material occurred from a mountain ridge above service facilities supporting pt freeport indonesia's mining facilities. three contract workers were fatally injured in the event. the material damaged a mess hall and an adjacent area. as a result of investigations by pt freeport indonesia and the indonesian department of energy and mineral resources, we conducted geotechnical studies to identify and address any potential hazards to workers and facilities from slides. the existing early warning system for potential slides, based upon rainfall and other factors, has also been expanded. in october 2003, a slippage of material occurred in a section of the grasberg open pit, resulting in eight fatalities. in december 2003, a debris flow involving a relatively small amount of loose material occurred in the same section of the open pit resulting in only minor property damage. the events caused us to alter our short-term mine sequencing plans; normal production activities resumed in second-quarter 2004. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our africa mining operation involves additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the drc. the tenke fungurume minerals district is located in a remote area of the drc and is subject to additional challenges, including: severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and possibly unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; challenges in obtaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria, cholera and hiv. additionally, due to limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the tenke mines approximately 1,900 miles to ports in south africa. the tenke fungurume minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. the volume and grade of ore reserves that we recover and our rate of production may be more or less than anticipated. our ore reserve amounts are determined in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange age of 1934, and are estimates of the mineral deposits that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates, and estimates may change as new data becomes available. estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth or our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. in addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. a sustained decrease in commodity prices may result in a reduction in economically recoverable ore reserves. these factors may result in variations in the volumes of mineral reserves that we report from period to period. there are also uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of ore reserves and copper recovered from mill and leach stockpiles. the quantity of copper delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated 51 table of contents copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. accordingly, the volume and grade of ore reserves recovered, rates of production and copper recovered from stockpiles may be less than anticipated. we must continually replace reserves depleted by production. our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long-term viability. produced ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term. exploration is highly speculative in nature. our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably. once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. as a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful. there is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects. the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and estimated future prices of the relevant minerals. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can adversely affect project economics. moreover, underground mining is generally more expensive than surface mining as a result of higher capital costs, including costs for modern mining equipment and construction of extensive ventilation systems. therefore, it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion of our current development projects. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. these development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, acquisition of governmental permits, acquisition of land, power and water, and ensuring that appropriate community infrastructure is developed by third parties to support such projects. it is possible that we could fail to obtain the government approvals necessary for the operation of a project, in which case, the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. it is not unusual for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in capital expenditures. the development of underground mines is subject to additional risks, including the following: unanticipated geologic, geotechnical and hydrogeologic conditions; challenges related to hiring and training personnel required for underground mining activities; larger than expected dilution of ore associated with block caving and stoping mining methods; and unanticipated delays in the development of major access and supporting infrastructure due to engineering changes, late delivery of critical components and longer than planned construction periods. some of these risks could result in delays to production startup and a loss or reduction in minable tons. there can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 52 table of contents environmental risks our operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulation. compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain our expansion opportunities. our mining, development, exploration and production activities, both in the u.s. and internationally, are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing occupational health, mine safety, generation, transportation and disposal of hazardous toxic substances, waste disposal, air emissions and water discharges, remediation of the environment, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. for example, under the clean air act, epa recently lowered the national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for sulfur dioxide. the area around our smelter in miami, arizona, has sulfur dioxide levels in excess of the new standard, and the smelter is the primary contributor to those levels. as a result, we will be required to limit the smelter's operations or install expensive pollution control equipment that will significantly reduce those emissions. additionally, any expansion of the smelter will be constrained by, or be significantly more expensive because of, these new standards. in addition, epa has recently proposed rules that, if effective, would reclassify some mineral processing materials as hazardous waste under the federal resource conservation and recovery act, which would reverse long-standing epa regulatory determinations and subject the industry to significant new and costly waste management requirements. we also believe there has generally been more aggressive application of the endangered species act, resulting in increases in the number of protected species and expansive designations of their critical habitat, which may make obtaining federal permits and securing additional water resources more time-consuming, unpredictable and expensive. other regulation under consideration by environmental regulatory agencies include provisions that would impose additional restrictions on waterway discharges, and regulate environmental impacts of radioactive materials associated with mining operations and expand regulation of solid wastes, among other things. adoption of these or similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs and constrain our u.s. expansion opportunities. in addition to compliance with environmental regulation at our operating sites, we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc), and many of its affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for environmental remediation on properties previously owned or operated by them, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean-up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2012 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects (including damaged natural resource claims) in the u.s. in 28 states. 53 table of contents at december 31, 2012 , we had $1.2 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributed to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago; our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the expected clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs ultimately may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. in addition, remediation standards imposed by epa and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time. for example, in some cases, epa has applied increasingly costly requirements regarding remediation of contaminated water bottom sediments. continued application of these types of standards could have an adverse impact on our ultimate cleanup costs at the newtown creek site in new york city. additionally, imposition of more stringent remediation standards poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. refer to note 13 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. during 2012 , we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $612 million , compared with $387 million in 2011 and $372 million in 2010 . for 2013 , we expect to incur approximately $600 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation activities, the settlement of environmental matters and as actual spending occurs. an adverse ruling in one or more pending legal proceedings involving environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us. as described in note 13, we are a defendant in numerous, and in some cases significant, litigation matters involving alleged environmental contamination, alleged environmental toxic torts and complex interpretations of environmental regulations. an adverse ruling in one or more of those matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesian government, uses the river system near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. 54 table of contents another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. from time to time, certain indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than our river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. in connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the indonesian government, we committed to perform a one-time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. we completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the indonesian government in december 2002. we developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the indonesian government, academia and non-governmental organizations. the risks identified during this process were in line with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents. since 2005, pt freeport indonesia has participated in the indonesian government's proper (program for pollution control, evaluation and rating) program. the last proper audit where the indonesian ministry of environment issued pt freeport indonesia a rating was in 2010, for which a blue rating was issued acknowledging pt freeport indonesia's environmental management practices as being in compliance with the laws and regulations in indonesia. in 2011, a proper audit of pt freeport indonesia was performed, however the indonesian ministry of environment did not issue a rating for pt freeport indonesia. a proper audit of pt freeport indonesia was not performed in 2012 because of security conditions that existed. mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. our u.s. operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined-land reclamation obligations. these requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. the laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. in general, our u.s. mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required. it is uncertain how potential epa requirements for financial assurance will affect the timing of periodic closure cost reviews or the scope of closure activities. in july 2011, the chilean senate passed legislation regulating mine closure, which became effective november 2012 and established new requirements for closure plans. our chilean operations will be required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. revised closure plans for our chilean mine sites are due in november 2014. cerro verde is subject to regulation under the mine closure law administered by the peruvian ministry of energy and mines. under the closure regulations, mines must submit a closure plan that includes the reclamation methods, closure cost estimates, methods of control and verification, closure and post-closure plans and financial assurance. the updated closure plan for the cerro verde mine expansion must be submitted to the peruvian regulatory authorities in december 2013. in december 2009, pt freeport indonesia submitted its revised mine closure plan to the department of energy and minerals resources for review and has addressed comments received during the course of this review process. in december 2010, the president of indonesia issued a regulation regarding mine reclamation and closure, which requires a company to provide a mine closure guarantee in the form of a time deposit placed in a state-owned bank in indonesia. in accordance with its cow, pt freeport indonesia is working with the department of energy and 55 table of contents mineral resources to review these requirements, including discussions of other options for the mine closure guarantee. we cannot predict at this time the cost of these closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required, which amounts could be substantial. at december 31, 2012 , we had asset retirement obligations (aros) of $1.1 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. aro cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in closure regulations, changes in engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, changes in mine plans, inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. refer to note 13 for further discussion. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets. many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, contribute to climate change. in 2012, our worldwide total greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were approximately 10 million metric tons, divided between direct (59 percent) and indirect (41 percent) emissions. most of our direct emissions are from fuel combustion in haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. indirect emissions are generally the emissions of outside providers from whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. our direct emissions are in indonesia (54 percent), north america (28 percent), south america (11 percent), and europe and africa (7 percent). our indirect emissions are in north america (73 percent), south america (24 percent) and europe (3 percent). a number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory initiatives designed to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in june 2010, the epa issued final regulations under the clean air act for the control of greenhouse gases from new large stationary sources and major modifications to existing large stationary sources. this and other federal greenhouse gas regulations have been challenged in judicial proceedings. certain of our operations, including the miami smelter, could be materially affected by these regulations if plant expansions exceed applicable thresholds. in addition, anticipated future epa regulations covering large fossil fuel fired power plants may materially increase energy costs at our operations. the u.s. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our u.s. operations. the december 1997 kyoto protocol established greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that ratified the protocol. in 2012, parties to the kyoto protocol agreed to a second commitment period beyond the original december 2012 expiration date. although the u.s. has not ratified the kyoto protocol, the u.s. continues to participate in global climate summits that may lead to an agreement in the future. since 2006, we have participated in the carbon disclosure project, which is a voluntary initiative that promotes standardized reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction efforts. in 2009, we formed a multi-departmental greenhouse gas task force to pursue ways to improve the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including evaluating potential reductions in emissions from our haul trucks. however, because of longer and steeper mining hauls as our open pits expand and deepen, and increases in use of electricity as we increase production capacity, we expect increases in our total greenhouse gas emissions. from a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to experience increased costs relating to our greenhouse gas emissions as a result of regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. in addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. we cannot predict the magnitude of any increased costs at this time, given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. these may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. these effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. 56 table of contents other risks if market prices for our commodities decline, the carrying values of inventories and long-lived assets may be impaired, which could require charges to operating income that could be material. declines in the market price of copper, among other factors, could cause us to record lower of cost or market (lcm) inventory adjustments and could also result in a write-down of the carrying value of long-lived assets, which would potentially have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and stockholders' equity, but would have no effect on cash flows. during fourth-quarter 2008, we concluded that the then-current economic environment and significant declines in copper and molybdenum prices represented significant adverse changes in our business requiring us to evaluate our long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment. as a result, we recorded significant impairment and lcm inventory charges. refer to item 6. "selected financial data" for a summary of these charges. unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to the litigation described in note 13 and in item 3. legal proceedings and a number of other litigation matters, including asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites, disputes over water rights and disputes with regulatory authorities. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. if any of these disputes results in a substantial monetary judgment against us or an adverse legal interpretation is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. achieving this objective may be difficult because of many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees to maintain our current business and support our future projects. a loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected. our holding company structure may impact your ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. cash at our international operations is also subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. 57 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize our board of directors (the board) to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit removal of directors for cause only; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the board. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders. risks associated with the proposed acquisitions of plains exploration &amp; production company (pxp) and mcmoran exploration co. (mmr) our proposed acquisitions of pxp and mmr may present certain risks to our business and operations. on december 5, 2012, we announced definitive merger agreements to acquire pxp and mmr. the proposed acquisitions present numerous risks, including the following: the possibility that the expected benefits of each transaction may not materialize in the timeframe expected or at all, or may be more costly to achieve than anticipated; that either or both of the transactions may not be timely completed, or completed at all; our ability to obtain financing required in connection with the transactions, and the increase in our indebtedness that would result from entering into such financing; that prior to the completion of the transactions or thereafter, our business or the respective businesses of pxp and mmr may not perform as expected due to transaction-related uncertainty or other factors; that the parties are unable to successfully implement integration strategies following closing of the transactions; that required approvals to consummate the mergers, including the required approvals of the stockholders of each of pxp and mmr, are not obtained or other closing conditions are not satisfied in a timely manner or at all; 58 table of contents stockholder reaction to the proposed acquisitions; risks associated with the ownership and operation of oil and gas assets and the other assets of each of pxp and mmr, which differ from those in the mining industry and include, among others, risks relating to oil and gas exploration, drilling and development (including ultra deep drilling) and operating in the deep water of the gulf of mexico; our ability to retain key employees of each of the parties; and whether or not one or both of the transactions are completed, the proposed acquisitions may require diversion of the attention of our management and other key employees from ongoing business activities, including the pursuit of other opportunities that could be beneficial to us. in addition, we have incurred substantial costs in connection with the proposed acquisitions, a significant amount of which are required to be paid whether or not the transactions are completed. one or more of these factors could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. refer to note 1 for further discussion of the proposed acquisitions of pxp and mmr. pending litigation against us, pxp and mmr could result in injunctions preventing completion of either or both of the proposed acquisitions and the payment of damages in the event one or both of the transactions is completed. in connection with the proposed acquisitions, stockholders of each of fcx, pxp and mmr have filed numerous derivative lawsuits against us and class action lawsuits against us, pxp and mmr, among others. among other remedies, the plaintiffs in these lawsuits seek to enjoin the proposed acquisitions. we may be subject to additional stockholder lawsuits during the pendency of the proposed acquisitions. these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of one or both of the proposed acquisitions and result in substantial costs to us, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors. the defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. refer to note 13 for further discussion of shareholder litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. consummating the pxp merger, but failing to complete the mmr merger could have consequences under the clayton antitrust act (the clayton act) and negatively affect the combined company's future business and financial results. if the pxp merger is completed, but the mmr merger is not completed, then the boards of directors and executive management of fcx and mmr may need to be reconstituted in order to comply with the clayton act. subject to certain de minimis exceptions, section 8 of the clayton act prohibits individuals from serving as directors or officers of two competing corporations when each corporation has capital, surplus and undivided profits in excess of $27.8 million. currently, fcx and mmr share overlapping board and management members, an overlap that is expected to continue even after the pxp merger is consummated, unless the mmr merger is also consummated. in the event that the pxp merger closes without the mmr merger also closing, the u.s. department of justice or federal trade commission could investigate whether the combined company and mmr are competitors for purposes of the clayton act, and could seek to eliminate the interlock by securing resignation of the interlocked individuals or by pursuing injunctive relief. private plaintiffs could also bring suits against the combined company seeking an injunction against the interlock. the potential distraction from operations, loss of key executive talent and cost of litigation could adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition or result of operations. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. not applicable. 59 table of contents item 3. legal proceedings. we are involved in numerous legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues arising from legacy operations conducted over the years by freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc) and its affiliates. we are also involved periodically in inquiries, investigations and other proceedings initiated by or involving government agencies, some of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. management does not believe, based on currently available information, that the outcome of any legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition; although individual outcomes could be material to our operating results for a particular period, depending on the nature and magnitude of the outcome and the operating results for the period. below is a discussion of our material water rights legal proceedings. refer to note 13 for discussion of our other material legal proceedings. water rights our operations in the western united states (u.s.) require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. continuous operation of our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. in the arid western u.s., water rights are often contested, and disputes over water rights are generally time-consuming, expensive and not necessarily dispositive unless they resolve both actual and potential claims. the loss of a water right, loss of continued use of a currently available water supply, or inability to expand our water resources could materially and adversely affect our mining operations by significantly increasing the cost of water, forcing us to curtail operations, preventing us from expanding operations or forcing premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs and foregoing profitable operations. at our north america operations, certain of our water supplies are supported by surface water rights, which give us the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. in arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which, for over 30 years, the arizona courts have been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems, which affect four of our operating mines (morenci, safford, sierrita and miami). the legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our bagdad mine. groundwater has historically been treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. however, court decisions in one of the adjudications have concluded that groundwater pumping may affect surface water, thereby bringing the pumping within the jurisdiction of the general stream adjudications. the effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water remains contested, however, and is currently the principal focus of one of those adjudications. because groundwater accounts for approximately 40 percent of arizona's water supplies, the re-characterization of any significant portion of that water as surface water could jeopardize the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us, to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a significant user of groundwater in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings. in re the general adjudication of all rights to use water in the little colorado water system and sources , apache county, superior court, no. 6417, filed on or about february 17, 1978. the principal parties, in addition to us, include: the state of arizona; the salt river project; the arizona public service company; the navajo nation, the hopi indian tribe; the san juan southern paiute tribe; and the u.s. on behalf of those tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the white mountain apache tribe. in re the general adjudication of all rights to use water in the gila river system and sources , maricopa county, superior court, cause nos. w-1 (salt), w-2 (verde), w-3 (upper gila), and w-4 (san pedro). this case was originally initiated in 1974 with the filing of a petition with the arizona state land department and was consolidated and transferred to the maricopa county superior court in 1981. the principal parties, in addition to us, include: the state of arizona; the gila valley irrigation district; the franklin irrigation district; the san carlos irrigation and drainage district; the salt river project; the san carlos apache tribe; the gila river indian community (gric); and the u.s. on behalf of those tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the white mountain apache tribe, the fort mcdowell mohave-apache indian community, the salt river pima-maricopa indian community, and the payson community of yavapai apache indians. 60 table of contents the maricopa county superior court issued a decision in 2005 in the gila river adjudication that directed the arizona department of water resources (adwr) to prepare detailed recommendations regarding the delineation of the sub-flow zone of the san pedro river basin, a tributary of the gila river. according to the court, the sub-flow zone is the subsurface area adjacent to the river where the court may find that groundwater is connected to the surface water such that groundwater pumping may reduce surface flows. although we have minimal interests in the san pedro river basin, a decision that re-characterizes groundwater in that basin as surface water may set a precedent for other river systems in arizona that could have material implications for many commercial, industrial, municipal and agricultural users of groundwater, including our arizona operations. adwr produced its recommendations in june 2009, and those recommendations were objected to by numerous parties on both sides of the issue. adwr responded to those objections in january 2011. following a three-day hearing held in late january 2012, at which various parties provided testimony and oral argument regarding the strengths and weaknesses of adwr's technical approach to characterizing underground flows as groundwater or surface water, the court directed adwr to submit a further report detailing the additional work it deemed necessary to properly delineate the san pedro river basin subflow zone. on october 12, 2012, the court issued an order instructing adwr to conduct additional technical work and issue revised subflow zone maps for the san pedro river basin. on october 17, 2012, the arizona supreme court announced the appointment of a replacement for the judge who had presided over the case for more than 10 years as a result of his appointment to the federal bankruptcy court. the new presiding judge is the fourth judge to preside over the case since its inception almost 40 years ago. on january 10, 2013, the new presiding judge heard oral arguments regarding the additional work to be performed by adwr in order to develop revised subflow zone maps for the san pedro river basin and issued an order instructing adwr to complete additional technical work and submit a new report by april 1, 2014. given the legal and technical complexity of this adjudication, its long history, and its long-term legal, economic and political implications, it is difficult to predict the timing or the outcome of this issue or of the overall adjudication. if we are unable to satisfactorily resolve the issues being addressed in this adjudication, our ability to pump groundwater could be diminished or curtailed, and our operations at morenci, safford, sierrita, miami and bagdad could be adversely affected. prior to january 1, 1983, various indian tribes filed suits in the u.s. district court in arizona claiming superior rights to water being used by many other water users, including us, and claiming damages for prior use in derogation of their allegedly superior rights. these federal proceedings have been stayed pending the arizona superior court adjudications. in 1998, we and several other parties entered into a water rights settlement agreement with gric, one of the largest claimants in the gila river adjudication, that was later included in a comprehensive water rights settlement under the arizona water settlements act of 2004. finalization of the gric settlement is subject to contingencies, and the comprehensive settlement has been challenged by other parties. if we are unable to resolve the contingencies in the gric settlement and defeat the third-party challenges, our water rights in the gila river watershed could be diminished, and our operations at morenci, safford, sierrita and miami could be adversely affected. united states v. gila valley irrigation district , united states district court, district of arizona, was initiated in 1925 by the u.s. to settle conflicting claims to water rights in portions of the gila river watershed. a decree settling the claims of various parties was entered in 1935, after we were dismissed from the case without prejudice. in 1988, gric intervened, challenging uses of water in the gila river watershed, which may affect our ability to divert water from eagle creek, chase creek or the san francisco river for operation of our morenci mine, pursuant to decreed rights and an agreement between us and the gila valley irrigation district. our morenci operations also purchased farm lands with water rights in 1997, 1998 and 2008 that could be affected by the outcome of this proceeding. impairment of our water claims in the gila river watershed could adversely affect the operations of our morenci and safford mines. item 4. mine safety disclosures. the safety and health of all employees is our highest priority. management believes that safety and health considerations are integral to, and compatible with, all other functions in the organization and that proper safety and health management will enhance production and reduce costs. our approach towards the health and safety of our workforce is to continuously improve performance through implementing robust management systems and providing adequate training, safety incentive and occupational health programs. 61 table of contents our objective is zero work place injuries and occupational illnesses. we measure progress toward achieving our objective against regularly established benchmarks, including measuring company-wide total recordable incident rates (trir). during 2012, our trir (including contractors) was 0.58 per 200,000 man-hours worked, compared to the preliminary metal mining sector industry average reported by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) for 2012 of 2.25 per 200,000 man-hours worked. our trir (including contractors) was 0.61 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2011 and 0.65 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2010 , compared to msha's metal mining sector industry average of 2.29 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2011 and 2.53 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2010 . refer to exhibit 95.1 for mine safety disclosures required in accordance with section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. executive officers of the registrant. certain information as of february 15, 2013 , about our executive officers is set forth in the following table and accompanying text: name age position or office james r. moffett 74 chairman of the board richard c. adkerson 66 director, president and chief executive officer michael j. arnold 60 executive vice president and chief administrative officer kathleen l. quirk 49 executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer james r. moffett has served as chairman of the board since may 1992. mr. moffett previously served as the chief executive officer from july 1995 until december 2003. he has also served as co-chairman of the board of mcmoran exploration co. (mmr) since september 1998, and president and chief executive officer since may 2010. richard c. adkerson has served as president since january 2008 and also from april 1997 to march 2007, chief executive officer since december 2003 and a director since october 2006. mr. adkerson previously served as chief financial officer from october 2000 to december 2003. mr. adkerson has also served as co-chairman of the board of mmr since september 1998. michael j. arnold has served as executive vice president since march 2007 and chief administrative officer since december 2003. kathleen l. quirk has served as executive vice president since march 2007, chief financial officer since december 2003 and treasurer since february 2000. ms. quirk previously served as senior vice president from december 2003 to march 2007. ms. quirk has also served as the senior vice president of mmr since april 2002 and as treasurer since january 2000. 62 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. unregistered sales of equity securities none. common stock our common shares trade on the new york stock exchange (nyse) under the symbol fcx. the fcx share price is reported daily in the financial press under fmcg in most listings of nyse securities. the table below shows the nyse composite tape common share price ranges during 2012 and 2011 : 2012 2011 high low high low first quarter $48.96 $36.76 $61.35 $46.20 second quarter $39.43 $31.16 $58.75 $46.06 third quarter $43.65 $31.08 $56.78 $30.37 fourth quarter $42.89 $30.54 $43.50 $28.85 at february 15, 2013 , there were 15,844 holders of record of our common stock. common stock dividends the declaration of dividends is at the discretion of the fcx board of directors (the board) and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the board. in february 2012, the board authorized an increase in the cash dividend on our common stock to the current annual rate of $1.25 per share ($0.3125 per share quarterly). the board also authorized a supplemental common stock dividend that was paid in june 2011. below is a summary of dividends on fcx common stock for 2012 and 2011 : 2012 per share amount record date payment date first quarter $0.25 01/13/2012 02/01/2012 second quarter $0.3125 04/13/2012 05/01/2012 third quarter $0.3125 07/13/2012 08/01/2012 fourth quarter $0.3125 10/15/2012 11/01/2012 2011 per share amount record date payment date first quarter $0.25 01/15/2011 02/01/2011 second quarter $0.25 04/15/2011 05/01/2011 supplemental dividend $0.50 05/15/2011 06/01/2011 third quarter $0.25 07/15/2011 08/01/2011 fourth quarter $0.25 10/15/2011 11/01/2011 on december 26, 2012, the board declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.3125 per share, which was paid on february 1, 2013, to common stockholders of record at the close of business on january 15, 2013. 63 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities the following table sets forth information with respect to shares of fcx common stock purchased by us during the three months ended december 31, 2012: period (a) total number of shares purchased (b) average price paid per share (c) total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs a (d) maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs a october 1-31, 2012 $ 23,685,500 november 1-30, 2012 23,685,500 december 1-31, 2012 23,685,500 total 23,685,500 a. on july 21, 2008, the board approved an increase in our open-market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. the program does not have an expiration date. 64 table of contents item 6. selected financial data. freeport-mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. selected financial and operating data years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 fcx consolidated financial data (in millions, except per share amounts) revenues $ 18,010 $ 20,880 $ 18,982 $ 15,040 $ 17,796 operating income (loss) 5,814 a,b 9,140 b 9,068 6,503 c,d (12,710 ) c,d,e net income (loss) 3,980 5,747 5,544 3,534 (10,450 ) net income (loss) attributable to fcx common stockholders 3,041 a,b,f,g 4,560 b,f,g 4,273 f 2,527 c,d,f (11,341 ) c,d,e,f basic net income (loss) per share attributable to fcx common stockholders $ 3.20 $ 4.81 $ 4.67 $ 3.05 $ (14.86 ) basic weighted-average common shares outstanding 949 947 915 829 763 diluted net income (loss) per share attributable to fcx common stockholders $ 3.19 a,b,f,g $ 4.78 b,f,g $ 4.57 f $ 2.93 c,d,f $ (14.86 ) c,d,e,f diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding 954 955 949 938 763 dividends declared per share of common stock $ 1.25 $ 1.50 $ 1.125 $ 0.075 $ 0.6875 operating cash flows h 3,774 6,620 6,273 4,397 3,370 capital expenditures 3,494 2,534 1,412 1,587 2,708 at december 31: cash and cash equivalents $ 3,705 $ 4,822 $ 3,738 $ 2,656 $ 872 property, plant, equipment and development costs, net 20,999 18,449 16,785 16,195 16,002 total assets 35,440 32,070 29,386 25,996 23,353 total debt, including current portion 3,527 3,537 4,755 6,346 7,351 total fcx stockholders' equity 17,543 15,642 12,504 9,119 5,773 the selected consolidated financial data shown above is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. these historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that you can expect for any future period. you should read this data in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in this annual report. a. includes a gain of $59 million ( $31 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.03 per share) for the settlement of the insurance claim for business interruption and property damage relating to the 2011 incidents affecting pt freeport indonesia's concentrate pipelines. b. includes charges totaling $16 million ( $8 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) associated with labor agreement costs at candelaria in 2012 and $116 million ( $50 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.05 per share) primarily associated with bonuses for new labor agreements and other employee costs at pt freeport indonesia, cerro verde and el abra in 2011 . c. includes charges totaling $23 million ($18 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.02 per share) associated with restructuring charges in 2009 and $17.0 billion ($12.7 billion to net loss attributable to common stockholders or $16.60 per share) associated with impairment and restructuring charges in 2008. d. includes charges for lower of cost or market inventory adjustments totaling $19 million ($15 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.02 per share) in 2009 and $782 million ($479 million to net loss attributable to common stockholders or $0.63 per share) in 2008. e. includes purchase accounting impacts related to the acquisition of fmc totaling $1.0 billion ($622 million to net loss attributable to common stockholders or $0.82 per share). f. includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversion of debt totaling $149 million ( $0.16 per share) in 2012 , $60 million ( $0.06 per share) in 2011, $71 million ( $0.07 per share) in 2010, $43 million ( $0.04 per share) in 2009 and $5 million ( $0.01 per share) in 2008; 2008 also includes charges totaling $22 million ($0.03 per share) associated with privately negotiated transactions to induce conversion of a portion of our 5 % convertible perpetual preferred stock into fcx common stock. g. includes a net tax credit of $98 million , net of noncontrolling interests ( $0.11 per share), associated with adjustments to cerro verde's deferred income taxes in 2012, and a tax charge of $49 million , net of noncontrolling interests ( $0.05 per share), for additional taxes associated with cerro verde's election to pay a special mining burden during the remaining term of its current stability agreement in 2011. h. net of working capital uses and other tax payments totaling $1.4 billion in 2012 , $461 million in 2011 , $834 million in 2010, $770 million in 2009 and $965 million in 2008. 65 table of contents freeport-mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. selected financial and operating data (continued) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 fcx consolidated mining operating data copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 3,663 3,691 3,908 4,103 4,030 production (thousands of metric tons) 1,662 1,674 1,773 1,861 1,828 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 3,648 3,698 3,896 4,111 4,066 sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 1,655 1,678 1,767 1,865 1,844 average realized price per pound $ 3.60 $ 3.86 $ 3.59 $ 2.60 $ 2.69 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 958 1,383 1,886 2,664 1,291 sales, excluding purchases 1,010 1,378 1,863 2,639 1,314 average realized price per ounce $ 1,665 $ 1,583 $ 1,271 $ 993 $ 861 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production 85 83 72 54 73 sales, excluding purchases 83 79 67 58 71 average realized price per pound $ 14.26 $ 16.98 $ 16.47 $ 12.36 $ 30.55 north america copper mines operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 1,363 1,258 1,067 1,147 1,430 production (thousands of metric tons) 618 571 484 520 649 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 1,351 1,247 1,085 1,187 1,434 sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 613 566 492 538 650 average realized price per pound $ 3.64 $ 3.99 $ 3.42 $ 2.38 $ 3.07 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production 36 35 25 25 30 100% operating data solution extraction/electrowinning (sx/ew) operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 998,600 888,300 648,800 589,400 1,095,200 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.22 0.24 0.24 0.29 0.22 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 866 801 746 859 943 mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 239,600 222,800 189,200 169,900 249,600 average ore grade (percent): copper 0.37 0.38 0.32 0.33 0.40 molybdenum 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 copper recovery rate (percent) 83.9 83.1 83.0 86.0 82.9 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 592 549 398 364 599 south america mining copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 1,257 1,306 1,354 1,390 1,506 production (thousands of metric tons) 570 592 614 631 683 sales (millions of pounds) 1,245 1,322 1,335 1,394 1,521 sales (thousands of metric tons) 565 600 606 632 690 average realized price per pound $ 3.58 $ 3.77 $ 3.68 $ 2.70 $ 2.57 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 83 101 93 92 114 sales 82 101 93 90 116 average realized price per ounce $ 1,673 $ 1,580 $ 1,263 $ 982 $ 853 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production 8 10 7 2 3 sx/ew operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 229,300 245,200 268,800 258,200 279,700 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.55 0.50 0.41 0.45 0.45 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 457 439 504 565 560 mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 191,400 189,200 188,800 181,300 181,400 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.60 0.66 0.65 0.66 0.75 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.10 0.12 0.10 0.10 0.13 molybdenum (percent) 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 copper recovery rate (percent) 90.1 89.6 90.0 88.9 89.2 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 800 867 850 825 946 66 table of contents freeport-mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. selected financial and operating data (continued) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 indonesia mining operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 695 846 1,222 1,412 1,094 production (thousands of metric tons) 315 384 554 640 496 sales (millions of pounds) 716 846 1,214 1,400 1,111 sales (thousands of metric tons) 325 384 551 635 504 average realized price per pound $ 3.58 $ 3.85 $ 3.69 $ 2.65 $ 2.36 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 862 1,272 1,786 2,568 1,163 sales 915 1,270 1,765 2,543 1,182 average realized price per ounce $ 1,664 $ 1,583 $ 1,271 $ 994 $ 861 100% operating data ore milled (metric tons per day): a grasberg open pit 118,800 112,900 149,800 166,300 129,800 deep ore zone underground mine 44,600 51,700 79,600 72,000 63,100 big gossan underground mine 1,600 1,500 800 total 165,000 166,100 230,200 238,300 192,900 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.62 0.79 0.85 0.98 0.83 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.59 0.93 0.90 1.30 0.66 recovery rates (percent): copper 88.7 88.3 88.9 90.6 90.1 gold 75.7 81.2 81.7 83.7 79.9 production (recoverable): copper (millions of pounds) 695 882 1,330 1,641 1,109 gold (thousands of ounces) 862 1,444 1,964 2,984 1,163 africa mining copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 348 281 265 154 b production (thousands of metric tons) 158 127 120 70 b sales (millions of pounds) 336 283 262 130 b sales (thousands of metric tons) 152 128 119 59 b average realized price per pound $ 3.51 $ 3.74 $ 3.45 $ 2.85 b cobalt (millions of contained pounds) production 26 25 20 sales 25 25 20 average realized price per pound $ 7.83 $ 9.99 $ 10.95 ore milled (metric tons per day) 13,000 11,100 10,300 7,300 b average ore grade (percent): copper 3.62 3.41 3.51 3.69 b cobalt 0.37 0.40 0.40 copper recovery rate (percent) 92.4 92.5 91.4 92.1 b molybdenum operations molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production 41 c 38 40 27 40 sales, excluding purchases d 83 79 67 58 71 average realized price per pound $ 14.26 $ 16.98 $ 16.47 $ 12.36 $ 30.55 henderson molybdenum mine ore milled (metric tons per day) 20,800 22,300 22,900 14,900 24,100 average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.23 0.24 0.25 0.25 0.23 molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 34 38 40 27 40 a. amounts represent the approximate average daily throughput processed at pt freeport indonesia's mill facilities from each producing mine. b. results for 2009 represent mining operations that began production in march 2009. c. includes production of 7 million pounds from the climax molybdenum mine, which began commercial operations in may 2012. d. includes sales of molybdenum produced at our north and south america copper mines. 67 table of contents ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculation, earnings consist of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, equity in affiliated companies' net earnings, cumulative effect of accounting changes and fixed charges. fixed charges include interest and that portion of rent deemed representative of interest. for the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends calculation, we assumed that our preferred stock dividend requirements were equal to the pre-tax earnings that would be required to cover those dividend requirements. we computed those pre-tax earnings using the effective tax rate for each year. our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was as follows for the years presented: years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 ratio of earnings to fixed charges 19.8x 20.7x 16.3x 9.3x - a ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends 19.8x 20.7x 13.9x 6.1x - b a. as a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. we would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.4 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. b. as a result of the loss recorded in 2008, the ratio coverage was less than 1:1. we would have needed to generate additional earnings of $13.8 billion to achieve coverage of 1:1 in 2008. 68 table of contents items 7. and 7a. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, we, us and our refer to freeport-mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. (fcx) and its consolidated subsidiaries. the results of operations reported and summarized below are not necessarily indicative of future operating results (refer to cautionary statement for further discussion). references to notes are notes included in our notes to consolidated financial statements. throughout management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, all references to earnings or losses per share are on a diluted basis, unless otherwise noted. proposed acquistions in december 2012, we announced definitive agreements to acquire, in separate transactions, plains exploration &amp; production company (pxp) and mcmoran exploration co. (mmr). completion of each transaction is subject to receipt of pxp and mmr stockholder approval of their respective transaction, regulatory approvals (including united states (u.s.) antitrust clearance under the hart-scott-rodino act) and other customary conditions. on december 26, 2012, the u.s. federal trade commission granted early termination of the hart-scott-rodino waiting period with respect to both transactions. the pxp transaction is not conditioned on the closing of the mmr transaction, and the mmr transaction is not conditioned on the closing of the pxp transaction. pxp and mmr shareholder meetings to approve the respective transactions will be scheduled upon the effectiveness of the respective registration statements filed with the u.s. securities and exchange commission. the transactions are expected to close in second-quarter 2013, subject to satisfaction of all conditions to closing. additionally in january 2013, fcx, through a newly formed joint venture, entered into a definitive agreement to acquire a cobalt chemical refinery in kokkola, finland, and the related sales and marketing business. the acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, and is expected to close in second-quarter 2013. the information contained in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk does not reflect our acquisitions of pxp, mmr or the cobalt chemical business. refer to notes 1 and 20 for further discussion of these proposed acquisitions. overview we are one of the world's largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. our portfolio of assets includes the grasberg minerals district in indonesia, significant mining operations in north and south america, and the tenke fungurume (tenke) minerals district in the democratic republic of congo (drc). the grasberg minerals district contains one of the largest copper and gold reserves in the world based on the latest available reserve data provided by third-party industry consultants. we also operate atlantic copper, our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in spain. we have significant reserves, resources and future development opportunities within our portfolio of assets. at december 31, 2012 , our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves totaled 116.5 billion pounds of copper, 32.5 million ounces of gold and 3.42 billion pounds of molybdenum, which were determined using long-term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $750 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. refer to critical accounting estimates mineral reserves for further discussion. 69 table of contents a summary of our consolidated copper, gold and molybdenum production for the year 2012 by geographic location follows: copper gold molybdenum north america 37 % 1 % 91 % a south america 34 % 9 % 9 % indonesia 19 % 90 % n/a africa 10 % n/a n/a a. for 2012 , 53 percent of our consolidated molybdenum production in north america was from the henderson and climax primary molybdenum mines. the climax molybdenum mine began commercial production in may 2012. copper production from the grasberg, morenci and cerro verde mines totaled 50 percent of our consolidated copper production in 2012 . refer to operations for further discussion of our mining operations. we are progressing on major development projects, including the development of the underground ore bodies at grasberg, and the expansion projects at morenci and cerro verde. studies are also under way to evaluate a major mill project at el abra and various mill projects to process significant sulfide ore in north america. the advancement of these studies is designed to position us to invest in production growth within our existing portfolio of assets. refer to operations for further discussion of our current operating and development activities. at december 31, 2012 , we had $3.7 billion in consolidated cash and $3.5 billion in long-term debt. in february 2012, we sold $3.0 billion in senior notes in three tranches with a weighted average interest rate of approximately three percent. we used the proceeds from this offering, plus cash on hand, to redeem the remaining $3.0 billion of our 8.375% senior notes. refer to "capital resources and liquidity - financing activities" and to note 9 for further discussion of these transactions. in february 2013, we entered into a new senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which will refinance and replace our existing revolving credit facility upon completion of the proposed acquisition of pxp. no amounts are currently available to us under the new revolving credit facility. refer to note 20 for further discussion. in february 2012, our board of directors (the board) authorized an increase in the cash dividend on our common stock to an annual rate of $1.25 per share ($0.3125 per share quarterly), and we paid dividends on our common stock totaling $1.1 billion in 2012. refer to note 11 for further discussion. at current copper prices, we expect to produce significant operating cash flows, and to use our cash to invest in our development projects and return cash to shareholders through dividends on our common stock. refer to consolidated results for discussion of items impacting our consolidated results for the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 . outlook we view the long-term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the world's economy. we will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. our financial results vary as a result of fluctuations in market prices for copper, gold and molybdenum and other factors. world market prices for these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. because we cannot control the price of our products, the key measures that management focuses on in operating our business are sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flow. discussion of the outlook for each of these measures follows. 70 table of contents sales volumes. following are our projected consolidated sales volumes for 2013 and actual consolidated sales volumes for 2012 : 2013 2012 (projected) (actual) copper (millions of recoverable pounds): north america copper mines 1,445 1,351 south america mining 1,325 1,245 indonesia mining 1,120 716 africa mining 410 336 4,300 3,648 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces): indonesia mining 1,240 915 north and south america mining 140 95 1,380 1,010 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) 90 a 83 a. includes projected sales of 40 million pounds of molybdenum produced at our north and south america copper mines. projected copper sales for 2013 are expected to be higher than 2012 sales, primarily reflecting access to higher grade ore in indonesia and south america and higher production in north america and africa. projected 2013 gold sales volumes are expected to be higher than 2012 , primarily reflecting higher ore grades at grasberg. molybdenum sales in 2013 are expected to be higher than 2012 , primarily reflecting higher production from our climax molybdenum mine. projected sales volumes are dependent on a number of factors, including achievement of targeted mining rates, the successful operation of production facilities, the impact of weather conditions and other factors. unit net cash costs. we expect to gain access to higher grade ore at grasberg in late 2013 , which will result in higher copper and gold production volumes (approximately 29 percent of 2013 consolidated copper sales volumes and 37 percent of consolidated gold sales volumes are expected in fourth-quarter 2013 ). quarterly unit net cash costs vary with fluctuations in sales volumes and average realized prices for gold and molybdenum, and are expected to be lower in late 2013 as we gain access to higher grade ore at grasberg. assuming average prices of $1,700 per ounce of gold and $11 per pound of molybdenum and achievement of current 2013 sales volume and cost estimates, consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) are expected to average $1.35 per pound in 2013 . the impact of price changes in 2013 on consolidated unit net cash costs would approximate $0.015 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $0.015 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. refer to consolidated results production and delivery costs for further discussion of consolidated production and delivery costs. operating cash flows. our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes and other working capital changes and other factors. based on current sales volumes and cost estimates and assuming average prices of $3.65 per pound of copper, $1,700 per ounce of gold and $11 per pound of molybdenum in 2013 , consolidated operating cash flows, excluding results of pending acquisitions, are estimated to approximate $7 billion in 2013 (including an estimated $450 million from net working capital sources and other tax payments). projected operating cash flows for the year 2013 also reflect estimated taxes of $2.6 billion (refer to consolidated results provision for income taxes for discussion of our projected annual consolidated effective tax rate for 2013 ). the impact of price changes in 2013 on operating cash flows would approximate $350 million for each $0.10 per pound change in the average price of copper, $55 million for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $110 million for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. 71 table of contents copper, gold and molybdenum markets world prices for copper, gold and molybdenum can fluctuate significantly. during the period from january 2003 through january 2013, the london metal exchange (lme) spot copper price varied from a low of $0.70 per pound in 2003 to a record high of $4.60 per pound in february 2011; the london bullion market association (london) gold price fluctuated from a low of $320 per ounce in 2003 to a record high of $1,895 per ounce in september 2011; and the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price ranged from a low of $3.28 per pound in 2003 to a high of $39.25 per pound in 2005. copper, gold and molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control as described further in our risk factors contained in part i, item 1a of our form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2012 . this graph presents lme spot copper prices and combined reported stocks of copper at the lme, the new york mercantile exchange (comex) and the shanghai futures exchange from january 2003 through january 2013. from 2006 through most of 2008, limited supplies, combined with growing demand from china and other emerging economies, resulted in high copper prices and low levels of inventories. in late 2008, slowing consumption, turmoil in the u.s. financial markets and concerns about the global economy led to a sharp decline in copper prices, which reached a low of $1.26 per pound in december 2008. higher copper prices since that time are attributable to a combination of continuing demand from developing economies and pro-growth monetary and fiscal policy decisions in europe, china and the u.s. during 2012 , lme spot copper prices ranged from $3.29 per pound to $3.93 per pound, averaged $3.61 per pound and closed at $3.59 per pound on december 31, 2012 . global exchange inventories increased during the second half of 2012, but remain low and represent less than two weeks of global demand. we believe the underlying long-term fundamentals of the copper business remain positive, supported by the significant role of copper in the global economy and a challenging supply environment. future copper prices are expected to be volatile and are likely to be influenced by demand from china and emerging markets, economic activity in the u.s. and other industrialized countries, the timing of the development of new supplies of copper and production levels of mines and copper smelters. the lme spot copper price closed at $3.72 per pound on february 15, 2013 . 72 table of contents this graph presents london pm gold prices from january 2003 through january 2013. during 2012 , gold prices ranged from $1,540 per ounce to $1,792 per ounce, averaging $1,669 per ounce and closing at $1,658 per ounce on december 31, 2012 . we believe the outlook for gold remains positive amid an uncertain outlook for global growth and the prospects for future inflation associated with accommodative monetary policies and elevated sovereign debt levels. gold prices closed at $1,612 per ounce on february 15, 2013 . this graph presents the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price from january 2003 through january 2013. in late 2008, molybdenum prices declined significantly as a result of the financial market turmoil and a decline in demand. during 2012 , the weekly average price of molybdenum ranged from $10.90 per pound to $14.80 per pound, averaged $12.74 per pound and was $11.60 per pound on december 31, 2012 . average metals week molybdenum dealer oxide prices were lower in 2012 , compared with 2011 , reflecting weaker demand and cautious buying activity. the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price was $11.27 per pound on february 15, 2013 . 73 table of contents critical accounting estimates management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) in the u.s. the preparation of these statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. we base these estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we consider reasonable under the circumstances; however, reported results could differ from those based on the current estimates under different assumptions or conditions. the areas requiring the use of management's estimates are also discussed in note 1 under the subheading use of estimates. management has reviewed the following discussion of its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board. mineral reserves . recoverable proven and probable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates. estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth of our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. in addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees. a majority of these estimates are reviewed annually and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. at december 31, 2012 , our consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves included 116.5 billion pounds of copper, 32.5 million ounces of gold and 3.42 billion pounds of molybdenum, which were determined using long- term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $750 per ounce for gold and $10.00 per pound for molybdenum, consistent with the prices used at year-end 2011 and 2010. the following table summarizes changes in our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper, gold and molybdenum reserves during 2012 and 2011 : copper (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) consolidated reserves at december 31, 2010 120.5 35.5 3.39 net additions/revisions 2.9 (0.2) 0.11 production (3.7 ) (1.4) (0.08) consolidated reserves at december 31, 2011 119.7 33.9 3.42 net additions/revisions 0.5 (0.4) 0.08 production (3.7 ) (1.0) (0.08) consolidated reserves at december 31, 2012 116.5 32.5 3.42 refer to note 18 for further information regarding estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves. as discussed in note 1 , we depreciate our life-of-mine mining and milling assets and values assigned to proven and probable reserves using the unit-of-production (uop) method based on our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves, and also have other assets that are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period and additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations, including changes to prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values. excluding impacts associated with changes in the levels of finished goods inventories and based on projected copper sales volumes for 2013 , if estimated copper reserves at our mines were 10 percent higher at december 31, 2012 , we estimate that our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for 2013 would decrease by $49 million ($25 million to net income attributable to common stockholders), and a 10 percent decrease in copper reserves would increase depreciation, depletion and amortization expense by $60 million ($32 million to net income attributable to common stockholders). we perform annual assessments of our existing assets in connection with the review of mine operating and development plans. if it is determined that 74 table of contents assigned asset lives do not reflect the expected remaining period of benefit, any change could affect prospective depreciation rates. as discussed below and in note 1 , we review and evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and changes to our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves could have an impact on our assessment of asset recoverability. recoverable copper in stockpiles . we record, as inventory, applicable costs for copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles that are expected to be processed in the future based on proven processing technologies. mill and leach stockpiles are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are stated at the lower of cost or market. accounting for recoverable copper from mill and leach stockpiles represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) it is impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, thus requiring management to employ reasonable estimation methods and (ii) recovery rates from leach stockpiles can vary significantly. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. adjustments to recovery rates will typically result in a future impact to the value of the material removed from the stockpiles at a revised weighted-average cost per pound of recoverable copper. during third-quarter 2012, we completed an assessment of estimated future recovery rates within the current mine plan at our chino leaching operations resulting in a downward revision of those rates and a corresponding reduction of 594 million pounds of estimated recoverable copper in leach stockpiles at chino. at december 31, 2012 , estimated consolidated recoverable copper was 2.9 billion pounds in leach stockpiles (with a carrying value of $2.9 billion ) and 1.4 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (with a carrying value of $719 million ). environmental obligations . our mining, exploration, production and historical operating activities are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, and compliance with those laws requires significant expenditures. environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized, depending upon their future economic benefits. the guidance provided by u.s. gaap requires that liabilities for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the cost can be reasonably estimated. refer to note 1 for discussion of our accounting policy for environmental expenditures. accounting for environmental obligations represents a critical accounting estimate because changes to environmental laws and regulations and/or circumstances affecting our operations could result in significant changes to our estimates, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. we perform a comprehensive annual review of our environmental obligations and also review changes in facts and circumstances associated with these obligations at least quarterly. judgments and estimates are based upon available facts, existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, remediation experience, whether or not we are a potentially responsible party (prp), the ability of other prps to pay their allocated portions and take into consideration reasonably possible outcomes. our cost estimates can change substantially as additional information becomes available regarding the nature or extent of site contamination, updated cost assumptions (including increases and decreases to cost estimates), changes in the anticipated scope and timing of remediation activities, the settlement of environmental matters, required remediation methods and actions by or against governmental agencies or private parties. 75 table of contents at december 31, 2012 , environmental obligations recorded in our consolidated balance sheet totaled $1.2 billion , which reflect obligations for environmental liabilities attributed to the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act (cercla) or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters. following is a summary of changes in our estimated environmental obligations for the years ended december 31 (in millions): 2012 2011 2010 balance at beginning of year $ 1,453 $ 1,422 $ 1,464 accretion expense a 80 88 97 additions 70 132 19 reductions b (182 ) (68 ) spending (199 ) (121 ) (158 ) balance at end of year $ 1,222 $ 1,453 $ 1,422 a. represents accretion of the fair value of environmental obligations assumed in the acquisition of freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc), which were determined on a discounted cash flow basis. b. reductions primarily reflected adjustments for changes in the anticipated scope and timing of environmental remediation projects and the settlement of environmental matters. refer to note 13 for further discussion of environmental obligations. reclamation and closure costs . reclamation is an ongoing activity that occurs throughout the life of a mine. we record the fair value of our estimated asset retirement obligations (aros) associated with tangible long-lived assets in the period incurred. fair value is measured as the present value of cash flow estimates after considering inflation and then applying a market risk premium. our cost estimates are reflected on a third-party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible long-lived assets in the period incurred. these cost estimates may differ from financial assurance cost estimates for reclamation activities because of a variety of factors, including obtaining updated cost estimates for reclamation activities, the timing of reclamation activities, changes in scope and the exclusion of certain costs not considered reclamation and closure costs. refer to note 1 for further discussion of our accounting policy for reclamation and closure costs. generally, aro activities are specified by regulations or in permits issued by the relevant governing authority, and management judgment is required to estimate the extent and timing of expenditures based on life-of-mine planning. accounting for reclamation and closure costs represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) we will not incur most of these costs for a number of years, requiring us to make estimates over a long period, (ii) reclamation and closure laws and regulations could change in the future and/or circumstances affecting our operations could change, either of which could result in significant changes to our current plans, (iii) calculating the fair value of our aros requires management to estimate projected cash flows, make long-term assumptions about inflation rates, determine our credit-adjusted, risk-free interest rates and determine market risk premiums that are appropriate for our operations and (iv) given the magnitude of our estimated reclamation and closure costs, changes in any or all of these estimates could have a significant impact on our results of operations. at least annually, we review our aro estimates for changes in the projected timing of certain reclamation costs, changes in cost estimates and additional aros incurred during the period. following is a summary of changes in our aros for the years ended december 31 (in millions): 2012 2011 2010 balance at beginning of year $ 921 $ 856 $ 731 liabilities incurred 6 9 5 revisions to cash flow estimates a 211 48 105 accretion expense 55 58 54 spending (47 ) (49 ) (38 ) foreign currency translation adjustment (1 ) (1 ) balance at end of year $ 1,146 $ 921 $ 856 a. revisions to cash flow estimates are primarily related to updated closure plans that included revised cost estimates and accelerated timing of certain closure activities. 76 table of contents refer to note 13 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. deferred taxes . in preparing our annual consolidated financial statements, we estimate the actual amount of taxes currently payable or receivable as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in income in the period in which such changes are enacted. a valuation allowance is provided for those deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that the related benefits will not be realized. in determining the amount of the valuation allowance, we consider estimated future taxable income as well as feasible tax planning strategies in each jurisdiction. if we determine that we will not realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets, we will increase our valuation allowance. conversely, if we determine that we will ultimately be able to realize all or a portion of the related benefits for which a valuation allowance has been provided, all or a portion of the related valuation allowance will be reduced. our valuation allowances totaled $2.4 billion at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , and covered all of our u.s. foreign tax credit carryforwards, and a portion of our foreign net operating loss carryforwards, u.s. state net operating loss carryforwards, u.s. state deferred tax assets, u.s. capital loss carryforwards and u.s. minimum tax credit carryforwards. these valuation allowances include $82 million at december 31, 2012 , and $80 million at december 31, 2011 , for tax benefits that, if recognized, would be credited directly to other comprehensive income. refer to note 12 for further discussion. impairment of assets. we evaluate our long-lived assets (to be held and used) for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. in evaluating our long-lived assets for recoverability, estimates of after-tax undiscounted future cash flows of our individual mining operations are used, with impairment losses measured by reference to fair value. as quoted market prices are unavailable for our individual mining operations, fair value is determined through the use of discounted estimated future cash flows. the estimated cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long-lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations are derived from current business plans, which are developed using near-term price forecasts reflective of the current price environment and management's projections for long-term average metal prices. in addition to near and long-term metal price assumptions, other key assumptions include commodity-based and other input costs; proven and probable reserves, including the timing and cost to develop and produce the reserves; and the use of appropriate escalation and discount rates. because the cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long-lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations require us to make several estimates and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainty, changes in these estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our long-lived asset values. events that could result in impairment of our long-lived assets include, but are not limited to, decreases in future metal prices, decreases in estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves and any event that might otherwise have a material adverse effect on mine site production levels or costs. refer to note 4 for further discussion. 77 table of contents consolidated results years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 financial data (in millions, except per share amounts) revenues a,b $ 18,010 $ 20,880 $ 18,982 operating income a 5,814 c,d,e 9,140 c,e 9,068 c net income attributable to fcx common stockholders f 3,041 c,d,e,g,h 4,560 c,e,g,h 4,273 c,g diluted net income per share attributable to fcx common stockholders f $ 3.19 c,d,e,g,h $ 4.78 c,e,g,h $ 4.57 c,g diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding 954 955 949 mining operating data copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 3,663 3,691 3,908 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 3,648 3,698 3,896 average realized price per pound $ 3.60 $ 3.86 $ 3.59 site production and delivery costs per pound i $ 2.00 $ 1.72 $ 1.40 unit net cash costs per pound i $ 1.48 $ 1.01 $ 0.79 gold (recoverable) production (thousands of ounces) 958 1,383 1,886 sales, excluding purchases (thousands of ounces) 1,010 1,378 1,863 average realized price per ounce $ 1,665 $ 1,583 $ 1,271 molybdenum (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 85 83 72 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 83 79 67 average realized price per pound $ 14.26 $ 16.98 $ 16.47 a. refer to note 17 for a summary of revenues and operating income by business segment. b. includes the impact of adjustments to provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales recognized in prior years. refer to revenues and disclosures about market risks commodity price risk for further discussion. c. includes net (credits) charges for adjustments to environmental obligations and related litigation reserves totaling $(62) million ( $(40) million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $(0.04) per share) in 2012 , $107 million ( $86 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.09 per share) in 2011 and $19 million ( $15 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.02 per share) in 2010. d. includes a gain of $59 million ( $31 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.03 per share) for the settlement of the insurance claim for business interruption and property damage relating to the 2011 incidents affecting pt freeport indonesia's concentrate pipelines. e. includes charges totaling $16 million ( $8 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) associated with labor agreement costs at candelaria in 2012 , and $116 million ( $50 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.05 per share) primarily associated with bonuses for new labor agreements and other employee costs at pt freeport indonesia, cerro verde and el abra in 2011 . f. we defer recognizing profits on intercompany sales until final sales to third parties occur. refer to "operations - atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining" for a summary of net impacts from changes in these deferrals. g. includes net losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $149 million ( $0.16 per share) in 2012, $60 million ( $0.06 per share) in 2011, and $71 million ( $0.07 per share) in 2010. refer to note 9 for further discussion. h. the 2012 period includes a net tax credit of $98 million , net of noncontrolling interests ( $0.11 per share), associated with adjustments to cerro verde's deferred income taxes. the 2011 period includes a tax charge of $49 million , net of noncontrolling interests ( $0.05 per share), for additional taxes associated with cerro verde's election to pay a special mining burden during the remaining term of its current stability agreement. refer to note 12 and "provision for income taxes" below for further discussion of these amounts. i. reflects per pound weighted-average production and delivery costs and unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for all copper mines, before net noncash and other costs. for reconciliations of the per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements, refer to operations unit net cash costs and to product revenues and production costs. 78 table of contents revenues consolidated revenues totaled $18.0 billion in 2012 , $20.9 billion in 2011 and $19.0 billion in 2010 , and included the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, gold, molybdenum and other metals by our north and south america copper mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our indonesia mining operations, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes, and gold in anodes and slimes by atlantic copper. our mining revenues for 2012 included sales of copper ( 79 percent ), gold ( 10 percent ) and molybdenum ( 7 percent ). following is a summary of year-to-year changes in our consolidated revenues (in millions): 2012 2011 consolidated revenues prior year $ 20,880 $ 18,982 (lower) higher price realizations from mining operations: copper (948 ) 999 gold 82 430 molybdenum (225 ) 40 silver (44 ) 121 cobalt (54 ) (24 ) (lower) higher sales volumes from mining operations: copper (194 ) (711 ) gold (583 ) (616 ) molybdenum 61 206 silver (38 ) 27 cobalt (6 ) 59 favorable (unfavorable) impacts of net adjustments for prior year provisionally priced sales 132 (4 ) (lower) higher purchased copper (469 ) 299 (lower) higher atlantic copper revenues (275 ) 493 other, including intercompany eliminations (309 ) 579 consolidated revenues current year $ 18,010 $ 20,880 price realizations our consolidated revenues can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. following is a summary of our average realized prices for the years ended december 31: 2012 2011 2010 copper (per pound) $ 3.60 $ 3.86 $ 3.59 gold (per ounce) $ 1,665 $ 1,583 $ 1,271 molybdenum (per pound) $ 14.26 $ 16.98 $ 16.47 silver (per ounce) $ 30.06 $ 36.24 $ 21.40 cobalt (per pound) $ 7.83 $ 9.99 $ 10.95 sales volumes 2012 compared with 2011 . consolidated sales volumes totaled 3.65 billion pounds of copper, 1.0 million ounces of gold and 83 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 , compared with 3.70 billion pounds of copper, 1.4 million ounces of gold and 79 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 . lower consolidated copper and gold sales volumes in 2012 primarily reflected lower volumes in indonesia and south america, partly offset by increased copper production in north america and africa. refer to operations for further discussion of sales volumes at our operating divisions. 2011 compared with 2010 . consolidated sales volumes totaled 3.70 billion pounds of copper, 1.4 million ounces of gold and 79 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 , compared with 3.90 billion pounds of copper, 1.9 million ounces of gold and 67 million pounds of molybdenum in 2010 . lower consolidated copper sales volumes in 2011 primarily reflected lower sales volumes in indonesia, partly offset by higher sales volumes in north america. lower consolidated gold sales volumes primarily reflected lower production in indonesia. copper and gold sales for 2011 were impacted by pt freeport indonesia labor disruptions in fourth-quarter 2011. higher consolidated molybdenum sales volumes in 2011 primarily reflected improved demand. 79 table of contents provisionally priced copper sales substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices (refer to disclosures about market risks commodity price risk for further discussion). following are the favorable (unfavorable) impacts of net adjustments to the prior years' provisionally priced copper sales for the years ended december 31 (in millions, except per share amounts): 2012 2011 2010 revenues $ 101 $ (12 ) $ (24 ) net income attributable to fcx common stockholders $ 43 $ (5 ) $ (10 ) net income per share of fcx common stock $ 0.05 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 ) provisionally priced sales adjustments also reflected adjustments to provisionally priced gold sales resulting in a favorable impact of $4 million in 2012, an unfavorable impact of $13 million in 2011 and a favorable impact of less than $1 million in 2010. purchased copper from time to time, we purchase copper cathode for processing by our rod &amp; refining segment when production from our north america copper mines does not meet customer demand. atlantic copper revenues the decrease in atlantic copper's revenues in 2012, compared with 2011, primarily reflected lower gold volumes. the increase in atlantic copper's revenues in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily reflected higher copper and gold revenues associated with higher prices. production and delivery costs 2012 compared with 2011 consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $10.4 billion in 2012 , compared with $9.9 billion in 2011 . higher production and delivery costs for 2012 primarily reflected higher costs at our mining operations, partly offset by lower costs of concentrate purchases at atlantic copper associated with lower copper prices and lower volumes and lower costs of cathode purchases in north america. consolidated unit site production and delivery costs, before net noncash and other costs, for our copper mining operations averaged $2.00 per pound of copper in 2012 , compared with $1.72 per pound of copper in 2011 . higher unit site production and delivery costs in 2012 primarily reflected lower copper sales volumes in indonesia and higher mining costs in north and south america. assuming achievement of current 2013 volume and cost estimates, consolidated site production and delivery costs are expected to average $1.89 per pound of copper for 2013 . lower projected unit site production and delivery costs for 2013, compared to 2012, primarily reflect the benefit of increased projected copper volumes at grasberg. refer to operations unit net cash costs for further discussion of unit net cash costs associated with our operating divisions, and to product revenues and production costs for reconciliations of per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas. energy costs approximated 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs in 2012 , and included purchases of approximately 255 million gallons of diesel fuel; 6,800 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america, south america and africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 700 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 million mmbtu (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. for 2013 , we estimate energy costs will approximate 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. 2011 compared with 2010 consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $9.9 billion in 2011 , compared with $8.3 billion in 2010 . higher production and delivery costs for 2011 primarily reflect increased mining and milling activities in north america, higher input costs at our mining operations, higher costs of concentrate purchases at atlantic copper associated with higher copper and gold prices, and higher costs of copper cathode purchases in north america associated with higher copper prices. 80 table of contents consolidated unit site production and delivery costs, before net noncash and other costs, for our copper mining operations averaged $1.72 per pound of copper in 2011 , compared with $1.40 per pound of copper in 2010 . higher unit site production and delivery costs in 2011 primarily reflected lower copper sales volumes in indonesia and increased mining and input costs in north and south america and africa. consolidated site production and delivery costs in 2011 also included $116 million ($0.03 per pound) primarily related to bonuses for new labor agreements and other employee costs in indonesia and south america. depreciation, depletion and amortization consolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $1.2 billion in 2012 and $1.0 billion in 2011 and 2010 . depreciation will vary under the uop method as a result of changes in sales volumes and the related uop rates at our individual mines. higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense in 2012 primarily reflected additions of assets depreciated on a straight-line basis in north and south america. selling, general and administrative expenses consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $431 million in 2012 , $415 million in 2011 and $381 million in 2010 . higher selling, general and administrative expenses in 2012 , compared with 2011 , primarily reflected transaction costs associated with pending acquisitions. higher selling, general and administrative expenses in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily reflected higher charitable contributions. exploration and research expenses consolidated exploration and research expenses totaled $285 million in 2012 , $271 million in 2011 and $143 million in 2010 . we are actively conducting exploration activities near our existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where we currently operate. favorable exploration results indicate opportunities for what we believe could be significant future potential reserve additions in north and south america and in the tenke minerals district. the drilling data in north america continues to indicate the potential for expanded sulfide production. for 2013 , exploration and research expenditures are expected to total approximately $275 million , including approximately $235 million for exploration. exploration activities will continue to focus primarily on the potential for future reserve additions in our existing minerals districts. approximately one third of the 2013 budget is associated with greenfield exploration projects. environmental obligations and shutdown costs environmental obligation costs (credits) reflect net revisions to our long-term environmental obligations, which will vary from period to period because of changes to environmental laws and regulations, the settlement of environmental matters and/or circumstances affecting our operations that could result in significant changes in our estimates (refer to "critical accounting estimates - environmental obligations" for further discussion). shutdown costs include care and maintenance costs and any litigation, remediation or related expenditures associated with closed facilities or operations. environmental obligations and shutdown costs totaled a net credit of $(22) million in 2012 , and net charges of $134 million in 2011 and $19 million in 2010 . refer to note 13 for further discussion of environmental obligations and litigation matters. gain on insurance settlement gain on insurance settlement totaled $59 million ( $31 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.03 per share) and reflected the settlement of the insurance claim for business interruption and property damage relating to the 2011 incidents affecting pt freeport indonesia's concentrate pipelines. interest expense, net consolidated interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) totaled $267 million in 2012 , $421 million in 2011 and $528 million in 2010 . the reduction in interest expense primarily reflects the impact of the first-quarter 2012 refinancing transaction and the impact of debt repayments during 2011 and 2010 (refer to note 9 for discussion of debt repayments). capitalized interest is primarily related to our development projects and totaled $81 million in 2012 , $109 million in 2011 and $66 million in 2010 . refer to "operations" for further discussion of current development projects. 81 table of contents losses on early extinguishment of debt during 2012 , we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $168 million ( $149 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.16 per share) associated with the redemption of our remaining 8.375% senior notes. during 2011 , we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $68 million ( $60 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.06 per share) associated with the redemption of our 8.25% senior notes, the revolving credit facilities that were replaced in march 2011 and open-market purchases of our 9.50% senior notes. during 2010 , we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $81 million ( $71 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.07 per share) associated with the redemption of our senior floating rate notes and open-market purchases of our 8.25%, 8.375% and 9.50% senior notes. refer to note 9 for further discussion of these transactions. provision for income taxes following is a summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for the year ended december 31 (in millions, except percentages): 2012 income a effective tax rate income tax (provision) benefit u.s. $ 1,539 23% $ (350 ) south america 2,211 36% (791 ) b indonesia 1,287 39% (497 ) africa 357 31% (112 ) eliminations and other 93 n/a 6 5,487 32% d (1,744 ) deferred tax liability adjustment c n/a n/a $ 234 consolidated fcx $ 5,487 28% $ (1,510 ) a. represents income by geographic location before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies' net earnings. b. in july 2012, sociedad minera cerro verde s.a.a. (cerro verde) signed a new 15-year mining stability agreement with the peruvian government, which is expected to become effective when the current mining stability agreement expires on december 31, 2013. in connection with the new mining stability agreement, cerro verde's income tax rate will increase from 30 percent to 32 percent. as a result of the change in the income tax rate, we recognized additional deferred tax expense of $29 million ( $25 million net of noncontrolling interests) in 2012, which relates primarily to the assets recorded in connection with the 2007 acquisition of fmc. c. with the exception of tenke fungurume mining s.a.r.l. (tfm), we have not elected to permanently reinvest earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, and we have recorded deferred tax liabilities for foreign earnings that are available to be repatriated to the u.s. cerro verde previously recorded deferred peruvian income tax liabilities for income taxes that would become payable if the reinvested profits used to fund the initial cerro verde sulfide expansion are distributed prior to the expiration of cerro verde's current stability agreement on december 31, 2013. because reinvested profits at cerro verde are not expected to be distributed prior to december 31, 2013, a net deferred tax liability totaling $234 million ( $123 million net of noncontrolling interests) was reversed and recognized as an income tax benefit in 2012. d. our consolidated effective income tax rate is a function of the combined effective tax rates for the jurisdictions in which we operate. accordingly, variations in the relative proportions of jurisdictional income can result in fluctuations to our consolidated effective income tax rate. assuming average prices of $3.65 per pound for copper, $1,700 per ounce for gold, $11 per pound for molybdenum and achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate our annual consolidated effective tax rate for 2013 (excluding impacts from the pending acquisitions) will approximate 34 percent to 35 percent . 82 table of contents following is a summary of the approximate amounts in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for the years ended december 31 (in millions, except percentages): 2011 2010 income a effective tax rate income tax provision income (loss) a effective tax rate income tax (provision) benefit u.s. $ 2,112 23% $ (478 ) $ 1,307 19% $ (244 ) south america 3,017 36% (1,075 ) b 2,995 33% (999 ) indonesia 2,923 43% (1,256 ) 4,069 42% (1,709 ) africa 357 34% (120 ) 395 30% (118 ) eliminations and other 409 n/a (158 ) (254 ) n/a 87 consolidated fcx $ 8,818 35% $ (3,087 ) $ 8,512 35% $ (2,983 ) a. represents income (loss) by geographic location before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies' net earnings. b. in september 2011, peru enacted a new mining tax and royalty regime and also created a special mining burden that companies with stability agreements can elect to pay. cerro verde elected to pay this special mining burden during the remaining term of its stability agreement. as a result, cerro verde recognized additional current and deferred tax expense of $53 million ( $49 million net of noncontrolling interests) in 2011. the deferred portion of this accrual relates primarily to the assets recorded in connection with the 2007 acquisition of fmc. refer to note 12 for further discussion of income taxes. operations north america copper mines we currently operate seven copper mines in north america morenci, bagdad, safford, sierrita and miami in arizona, and tyrone and chino in new mexico. all of these mining operations are wholly owned, except for morenci, an unincorporated joint venture in which we own an 85 percent undivided interest. the north america copper mines include open-pit mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and solution extraction/electrowinning (sx/ew) operations. molybdenum concentrate is also produced by certain of our north america copper mines (sierrita, bagdad, morenci and chino) . a majority of the copper produced at our north america copper mines is cast into copper rod by our rod &amp; refining operations. the remainder of our north america copper sales is in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate, a portion of which is shipped to atlantic copper, an affiliated smelter. operating and development activities. we have increased production at our north america copper mines, reflecting the restart of certain mining and milling operations and the increase of mining rates at morenci and chino. ramp up activities at chino are continuing, with annual production of approximately 250 million pounds of copper targeted in 2014, compared with 144 million pounds of copper in 2012. we continue to evaluate opportunities to invest in additional production capacity at our north america copper mines in response to positive exploration results in recent years. morenci mill expansion. we are engaged in a project to expand mining and milling capacity at morenci to process additional sulfide ores identified through exploratory drilling. the approximate $1.4 billion project is targeting incremental annual production of approximately 225 million pounds of copper in 2014 (an approximate 40 percent increase from 2012) through an increase in milling rates from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day, and mining rates from 700,000 short tons per day to 900,000 short tons per day. engineering activities are progressing and construction activities are under way. project costs of $294 million have been incurred as of december 31, 2012 ($267 million during 2012 ). 83 table of contents operating data. following is summary operating data for the north america copper mines for the years ended december 31: 2012 2011 2010 operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 1,363 1,258 1,067 sales, excluding purchases 1,351 1,247 1,085 average realized price per pound $ 3.64 $ 3.99 $ 3.42 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production a 36 35 25 100% operating data sx/ew operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 998,600 888,300 648,800 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.22 0.24 0.24 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 866 801 746 mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 239,600 222,800 189,200 average ore grade (percent): copper 0.37 0.38 0.32 molybdenum 0.03 0.03 0.03 copper recovery rate (percent) 83.9 83.1 83.0 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 592 549 398 a. reflects molybdenum production from certain of our north america copper mines. sales of molybdenum are reflected in the molybdenum division. 2012 compared with 2011 copper sales volumes from our north america copper mines increased to 1.35 billion pounds in 2012 , compared with 1.25 billion pounds in 2011 , primarily reflecting increased production at the chino mine. copper sales volumes from our north america copper mines are expected to approximate 1.45 billion pounds in 2013 . higher projected copper sales volumes in 2013 , compared with 2012 , primarily reflect higher production at morenci and chino. refer to "outlook" for projected molybdenum sales volumes. 2011 compared with 2010 copper sales volumes from our north america copper mines increased to 1.25 billion pounds in 2011 , compared with 1.09 billion pounds in 2010 , primarily reflecting increased production at the morenci, miami and chino mines. unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 84 table of contents gross profit per pound of copper and molybdenum the following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at our north america copper mines for the years ended december 31. refer to product revenues and production costs for an explanation of the by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2012 2011 by- co-product method by- co-product method product method copper molyb- denum a product method copper molyb- denum a revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.64 $ 3.64 $ 13.00 $ 3.99 $ 3.99 $ 15.72 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.91 1.75 6.32 1.78 1.60 6.86 by-product credits a (0.36 ) (0.48 ) treatment charges 0.12 0.11 0.11 0.10 unit net cash costs 1.67 1.86 6.32 1.41 1.70 6.86 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.26 0.24 0.48 0.21 0.20 0.39 noncash and other costs, net 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.13 0.13 0.09 total unit costs 2.03 2.20 6.89 1.75 2.03 7.34 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.01 0.01 gross profit per pound $ 1.62 $ 1.45 $ 6.11 $ 2.24 $ 1.96 $ 8.38 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,347 1,347 1,244 1,244 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) b 36 35 a. molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market-based pricing. b. reflects molybdenum produced by certain of our north america copper mines. our north america copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and characteristics, processing costs, by-products and other factors. during 2012 , average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for the north america copper mines ranged from $1.13 per pound to $2.15 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.67 per pound. average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our north america copper mines increased to $1.67 per pound of copper in 2012 , compared with $1.41 per pound in 2011 , primarily reflecting increased mining and milling activities and lower molybdenum credits, partly offset by higher copper sales volumes. because certain assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis, north america's average unit depreciation rate varies with asset additions and the level of copper production and sales. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and an average price of $11 per pound of molybdenum for 2013 , we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our north america copper mines would approximate $1.82 per pound of copper in 2013 . north america's average unit net cash costs for 2013 would change by approximately $0.04 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum during 2013 . north america's unit net cash costs for 2013 are expected to be higher than 2012 because of lower molybdenum credits and higher mining rates. 85 table of contents 2011 2010 by- co-product method by- co-product method product method copper molyb- denum a product method copper molyb- denum a revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.99 $ 3.99 $ 15.72 $ 3.42 $ 3.42 $ 15.60 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.78 1.60 6.86 1.50 1.35 7.95 by-product credits a (0.48 ) (0.35 ) treatment charges 0.11 0.10 0.09 0.09 unit net cash costs 1.41 1.70 6.86 1.24 1.44 7.95 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.21 0.20 0.39 0.24 0.22 0.54 noncash and other costs, net 0.13 0.13 0.09 0.20 0.20 0.03 total unit costs 1.75 2.03 7.34 1.68 1.86 8.52 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales gross profit per pound $ 2.24 $ 1.96 $ 8.38 $ 1.74 $ 1.56 $ 7.08 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,244 1,244 1,082 1,082 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) b 35 25 a. molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market-based pricing. b. reflects molybdenum produced by certain of our north america copper mines. unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our north america copper mines increased to $1.41 per pound of copper in 2011 , compared with $1.24 per pound in 2010 , primarily reflecting increased mining and milling activities and higher input costs, partly offset by higher molybdenum credits. south america mining we operate four copper mines in south america cerro verde in peru, and el abra, candelaria and ojos del salado in chile. we own a 53.56 percent interest in cerro verde, a 51 percent interest in el abra, and an 80 percent interest in both candelaria and ojos del salado. south america mining includes open-pit and underground mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and sx/ew operations. production from our south america mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under long-term contracts. our south america mines ship a portion of their copper concentrate inventories to atlantic copper, an affiliated smelter. in addition to copper, the cerro verde mine produces molybdenum concentrates, and the candelaria and ojos del salado mines produce gold and silver. operating and development activities. cerro verde expansion. at cerro verde, we are engaged in a large-scale expansion. the approximate $4.4 billion project would expand the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. considering the long-term nature and large size of the project, actual costs could vary from these estimates. cerro verde received approval of the environmental impact assessment in fourth-quarter 2012. detailed engineering and long-lead item procurement are under way, including $492 million of costs incurred to date. construction is expected to commence in 2013. an agreement has been reached with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar) and other local institutions to allow cerro verde to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant for arequipa, should cerro verde proceed with the expansion. once cerro verde obtains a license for the treated water it would be used to supplement existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion. el abra sulfide. during 2011, we commenced production from el abra's sulfide ores. production from the sulfide ore is replacing the depleting oxide copper production. we are also engaged in pre-feasibility studies for a potential large-scale milling operation at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. exploration results at el abra have identified a significant sulfide resource. 86 table of contents candelaria water. as part of our overall strategy to supply water to the candelaria mine, we completed construction of a pipeline to bring water from a nearby water treatment facility. in addition, we have substantially completed the construction of a desalination plant and pipeline that will supply candelaria's longer term water needs, at a cost of approximately $315 million. operating data. following is summary operating data for the south america mining operations for the years ended december 31. 2012 2011 2010 copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 1,257 1,306 1,354 sales 1,245 1,322 1,335 average realized price per pound $ 3.58 $ 3.77 $ 3.68 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 83 101 93 sales 82 101 93 average realized price per ounce $ 1,673 $ 1,580 $ 1,263 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production a 8 10 7 sx/ew operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 229,300 245,200 268,800 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.55 0.50 0.41 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 457 439 504 mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 191,400 189,200 188,800 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.60 0.66 0.65 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.10 0.12 0.10 molybdenum (percent) 0.02 0.02 0.02 copper recovery rate (percent) 90.1 89.6 90.0 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 800 867 850 a. reflects molybdenum production from the cerro verde mine. sales of molybdenum are reflected in the molybdenum division. 2012 compared with 2011 copper sales volumes from our south america mining operations totaled 1.25 billion pounds in 2012 , compared with 1.32 billion in 2011 , primarily reflecting lower ore grades at candelaria and cerro verde, partly offset by higher mining rates and ore grades at el abra. consolidated copper sales volumes from our south america mines are expected to approximate 1.33 billion pounds in 2013 . higher projected copper sales volumes in 2013 , compared with 2012 , primarily reflect the mining of higher grade ore at candelaria. refer to "outlook" for projected gold and molybdenum sales volumes. 2011 compared with 2010 copper sales volumes from our south america mining operations totaled 1.32 billion pounds in 2011 and 1.34 billion pounds in 2010 , primarily reflecting lower mining rates at el abra as it transitions from oxide to sulfide ores, partially offset by higher grade ore at candelaria. unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 87 table of contents gross profit per pound of copper the following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at our south america mining operations for the years ended december 31. unit net cash costs per pound of copper are reflected under the by-product and co-product methods as the south america mining operations also had small amounts of molybdenum, gold and silver sales. refer to product revenues and production costs for an explanation of the by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2012 2011 by-product method co-product method by-product method co-product method revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.58 $ 3.58 $ 3.77 $ 3.77 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.60 a 1.49 1.38 a 1.27 by-product credits (0.26 ) (0.35 ) treatment charges 0.16 0.16 0.17 0.17 unit net cash costs 1.50 1.65 1.20 1.44 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.23 0.22 0.20 0.18 noncash and other costs, net 0.09 0.06 0.06 0.05 total unit costs 1.82 1.93 1.46 1.67 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.09 0.09 0.01 gross profit per pound $ 1.85 $ 1.74 $ 2.32 $ 2.10 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,245 1,245 1,322 1,322 a. includes $16 million ($0.01 per pound) associated with labor agreement costs at candelaria in 2012, and $50 million ($0.04 per pound) for bonuses paid at cerro verde and el abra pursuant to new labor agreements in 2011. our south america mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and characteristics, processing costs, by-products and other factors. during 2012 , unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for the south america mines ranged from $1.30 per pound to $1.72 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.50 per pound. average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our south america mining operations increased to $1.50 per pound of copper in 2012 , compared with $1.20 per pound in 2011 , primarily reflecting higher mining and input costs, lower by-product credits and lower sales volumes. because certain assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis, south america's unit depreciation rate varies with asset additions and the level of copper production and sales. revenue adjustments primarily result from changes in prices on provisionally priced copper sales recognized in prior years. refer to consolidated results - revenues for further discussion of adjustments to prior year provisionally priced copper sales. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and average prices of $1,700 per ounce of gold and $11 per pound of molybdenum in 2013 , we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our south america mining operations would approximate $1.50 per pound of copper in 2013 . 88 table of contents 2011 2010 by-product method co-product method by-product method co-product method revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.77 $ 3.77 $ 3.68 $ 3.68 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.38 a 1.27 1.21 1.14 by-product credits (0.35 ) (0.21 ) treatment charges 0.17 0.17 0.15 0.15 unit net cash costs 1.20 1.44 1.15 1.29 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.20 0.18 0.19 0.18 noncash and other costs, net 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.05 total unit costs 1.46 1.67 1.39 1.52 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.01 (0.01 ) (0.01 ) gross profit per pound $ 2.32 $ 2.10 $ 2.28 $ 2.15 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,322 1,322 1,335 1,335 a. includes $50 million ($0.04 per pound) for bonuses paid at cerro verde and el abra pursuant to new labor agreements. unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our south america mining operations increased to $1.20 per pound of copper in 2011 , compared with $1.15 per pound in 2010 , primarily reflecting higher input costs and the impact of bonuses paid pursuant to new labor agreements, partially offset by higher by-product credits. indonesia mining indonesia mining includes pt freeport indonesia's grasberg minerals district. we own 90.64 percent of pt freeport indonesia, including 9.36 percent owned through our wholly owned subsidiary, pt indocopper investama. as discussed in note 14 , we have agreed to consider a potential sale of our interest in pt indocopper investama at fair market value. pt freeport indonesia is currently engaged in discussions with the indonesian government related to its contract of work and intends to conclude that process before proceeding with any further discussions about the potential sale of an interest in pt indocopper investama. pt freeport indonesia produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver. substantially all of pt freeport indonesia's copper concentrates are sold under long-term contracts, of which approximately one-half is sold to affiliated smelters, atlantic copper and pt smelting (pt freeport indonesia's 25-percent owned copper smelter and refinery in indonesia - refer to note 2 for further discussion), and the remainder to other third-party customers. we have established certain unincorporated joint ventures with rio tinto plc (rio tinto), under which rio tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver. refer to note 2 for further discussion of our joint ventures with rio tinto plc and to note 14 for further discussion of pt freeport indonesia's contract of work with the government of indonesia. refer to "risk factors" contained in part i, item 1a of our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2012 , for discussion of risks associated with operations in indonesia. operating and development activities. we have several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district, primarily related to the development of large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up over several years to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the currently anticipated transition from the grasberg open pit in 2017. over the next five years, aggregate capital spending on these projects is currently expected to average $715 million per year ( $565 million per year net to pt freeport indonesia). considering the long-term nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could vary from these estimates. 89 table of contents the following provides additional information on the continued development of the common infrastructure project, the grasberg block cave underground mine and development of the deep mill level zone (dmlz) ore body that lies below the deep ore zone (doz) underground mine. common infrastructure and grasberg block cave mine. in 2004, pt freeport indonesia commenced its common infrastructure project to provide access to its large undeveloped underground ore bodies located in the grasberg minerals district through a tunnel system located approximately 400 meters deeper than its existing underground tunnel system. in addition to providing access to our underground ore bodies, the tunnel system will enable pt freeport indonesia to conduct future exploration in prospective areas associated with currently identified ore bodies. the tunnel system was completed to the big gossan terminal, and the big gossan mine was brought into production in fourth-quarter 2010. development of the dmlz and grasberg block cave is advancing. the grasberg block cave underground mine accounts for more than 40 percent of our recoverable proven and probable reserves in indonesia. production at the grasberg block cave mine is currently scheduled to commence in 2017, at the end of mining the grasberg open pit, which is currently expected at the end of 2016. targeted production rates once the grasberg block cave mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 160,000 metric tons of ore per day. aggregate mine development capital for the grasberg block cave mine and associated common infrastructure is expected to approximate $4.4 billion (incurred from 2008 to 2021), with pt freeport indonesia's share totaling approximately $4.1 billion. aggregate project costs totaling $860 million have been incurred through december 31, 2012 ($291 million during 2012 ). dmlz. the dmlz ore body lies below the doz mine at the 2,590-meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the ertsberg east skarn system and neighboring ertsberg porphyry. we plan to mine the ore body using a block-cave method with production beginning in 2015. drilling efforts continue to determine the extent of this ore body. aggregate mine development capital costs for the dmlz mine are expected to approximate $2.3 billion (incurred from 2009 to 2020), with pt freeport indonesia's share totaling approximately $1.4 billion. aggregate project costs totaling $510 million have been incurred through december 31, 2012 ($241 million during 2012 ). targeted production rates once the dmlz mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. other matters. pt freeport indonesia is engaged in discussions with officials of the indonesian government on its operations, future plans and contract of work (cow). we are working cooperatively with the government in its review of pt freeport indonesia's cow and to obtain an extension of our cow beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the cow. refer to note 14 for further discussion of pt freeport indonesia's cow. between july 2009 and february 15, 2013 , there were 37 shooting incidents in and around the grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which resulted in 15 fatalities and 57 injuries. the investigation of these matters is continuing. we have taken precautionary measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. the indonesian government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt freeport indonesia is working cooperatively with the indonesian government to address security issues. refer to "risk factors" contained in part i, item 1a of our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2012 , for further discussion. 90 table of contents operating data. following is summary operating data for our indonesia mining operations for the years ended december 31. 2012 2011 2010 operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 695 846 1,222 sales 716 846 1,214 average realized price per pound $ 3.58 $ 3.85 $ 3.69 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 862 1,272 1,786 sales 915 1,270 1,765 average realized price per ounce $ 1,664 $ 1,583 $ 1,271 100% operating data ore milled (metric tons per day): a grasberg open pit 118,800 112,900 149,800 doz underground mine b 44,600 51,700 79,600 big gossan underground mine c 1,600 1,500 800 total 165,000 166,100 230,200 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.62 0.79 0.85 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.59 0.93 0.90 recovery rates (percent): copper 88.7 88.3 88.9 gold 75.7 81.2 81.7 production (recoverable): copper (millions of pounds) 695 882 1,330 gold (thousands of ounces) 862 1,444 1,964 a. amounts represent the approximate average daily throughput processed at pt freeport indonesia's mill facilities from each producing mine. b. production from the doz underground mine is expected to ramp up to the design rate of 80,000 metric tons of ore per day by year end 2013, following completion of ongoing panel repairs resulting from the temporary shutdown and suspension of operations in fourth-quarter 2011 and early 2012. c. production from the big gossan underground mine is expected to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2014. 2012 compared with 2011 sales volumes from our indonesia mining operations declined to 716 million pounds of copper and 915 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 , compared with 846 million pounds of copper and 1.3 million ounces of gold in 2011 . lower copper and gold sales volumes in 2012 primarily reflected lower ore grades. at the grasberg mine, the sequencing of mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in the timing of ore production resulting in varying quarterly and annual sales of copper and gold. consolidated sales volumes from our indonesia mining operations are expected to approximate 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold for 2013 . we expect sales from indonesia to increase in fourth-quarter 2013 as pt freeport indonesia gains access to higher ore grades and achieves the targeted ramp up in production from the doz mine. approximately 33 percent of projected copper sales and 38 percent of projected gold sales from our indonesia mining operations are currently expected in fourth-quarter 2013. 2011 compared with 2010 sales volumes from our indonesia mining operations declined to 846 million pounds of copper and 1.3 million ounces of gold in 2011 , compared with 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 1.8 million ounces of gold in 2010 . lower copper and gold sales volumes in 2011 primarily reflected the impact of labor-related disruptions and the temporary suspension of milling operations in fourth-quarter 2011 because of damage to the concentrate pipelines. 91 table of contents unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metal mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. gross profit per pound of copper/per ounce of gold the following tables summarize the unit net cash costs (credits) and gross profit per pound of copper and per ounce of gold at our indonesia mining operations for the years ended december 31. refer to production revenues and production costs for an explanation of by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs (credits) per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2012 2011 by- co-product method by- co-product method product method copper gold product method copper gold revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.58 $ 3.58 $ 1,664 $ 3.85 $ 3.85 $ 1,583 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 3.12 1.93 894 2.21 a 1.34 551 gold and silver credits (2.22 ) (2.47 ) treatment charges 0.21 0.13 61 0.19 0.11 46 royalty on metals 0.13 0.08 38 0.16 0.10 41 unit net cash costs 1.24 2.14 993 0.09 1.55 638 depreciation and amortization 0.30 0.18 85 0.25 0.16 63 noncash and other costs, net 0.11 0.07 33 0.04 0.02 10 total unit costs 1.65 2.39 1,111 0.38 1.73 711 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.02 0.02 3 (0.01 ) (0.01 ) (13 ) pt smelting intercompany profit (0.05 ) (0.03 ) (15 ) 0.13 0.08 32 gross profit per pound/ounce $ 1.90 $ 1.18 $ 541 $ 3.59 $ 2.19 $ 891 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 716 716 846 846 gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 915 1,270 a. includes $66 million ($0.08 per pound) for bonuses and other strike-related costs. because of the fixed nature of a large portion of pt freeport indonesia's costs, unit costs vary from period to period depending on volumes of copper and gold sold, as well as average realized gold prices during the period. unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) for our indonesia mining operations averaged $1.24 per pound of copper in 2012 , compared with $0.09 per pound in 2011 . higher unit net cash costs primarily reflected lower copper and gold sales volumes. treatment charges vary with the volume of metals sold and the price of copper, and royalties vary with the volume of metals sold and the prices of copper and gold. because certain assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis, pt freeport indonesia's unit depreciation rate varies with asset additions and the level of copper production and sales. revenue adjustments primarily result from changes in prices on provisionally priced copper sales recognized in prior years. refer to consolidated results - revenues for further discussion of adjustments to prior year provisionally priced copper sales. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, and an average gold price of $1,700 per ounce for 2013 , we estimate that average unit net cash costs for indonesia (net of gold and silver credits) would approximate $0.68 per pound of copper for the year 2013 . indonesia's unit net cash costs for 2013 would change by $0.055 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold during 2013 . quarterly unit net 92 table of contents cash costs are expected to vary significantly with variations in quarterly metal sales volumes, as well as average realized gold prices during the period. indonesia's unit net cash costs for first-quarter 2013 are expected to approximate $1.57 per pound of copper and are expected to be lower in future periods as volumes increase. 2011 2010 by- co-product method by- co-product method product method copper gold product method copper gold revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.85 $ 3.85 $ 1,583 $ 3.69 $ 3.69 $ 1,271 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2.21 a 1.34 551 1.53 1.01 347 gold and silver credits (2.47 ) (1.92 ) treatment charges 0.19 0.11 46 0.22 0.15 50 royalty on metals 0.16 0.10 41 0.13 0.08 29 unit net cash costs (credits) 0.09 1.55 638 (0.04 ) 1.24 426 depreciation and amortization 0.25 0.16 63 0.21 0.14 48 noncash and other costs, net 0.04 0.02 10 0.04 0.02 9 total unit costs 0.38 1.73 711 0.21 1.40 483 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (0.01 ) (0.01 ) (13 ) (0.01 ) (0.01 ) 1 pt smelting intercompany profit 0.13 0.08 32 (0.03 ) (0.02 ) (8 ) gross profit per pound/ounce $ 3.59 $ 2.19 $ 891 $ 3.44 $ 2.26 $ 781 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 846 846 1,214 1,214 gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,270 1,765 a. includes $66 million ($0.08 per pound) for bonuses and other strike-related costs. unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) for our indonesia mining operations averaged $0.09 per pound of copper in 2011 , compared with a net credit of $0.04 per pound in 2010 . higher unit net cash costs primarily reflected lower copper sales volumes and the impact of bonuses and other strike-related costs, partially offset by higher gold and silver credits. africa mining africa mining includes tfm's tenke minerals district. we hold an effective 56 percent interest in the tenke copper and cobalt mining concessions in the katanga province of the drc and are the operator of tfm. as further discussed in note 14 , effective march 26, 2012, the drc government issued a presidential decree approving modifications to tfm's bylaws, and our and lundin mining corporation's ownership interest in tfm totals 80 percent (previously 82.5 percent) and la g n rale des carri res et des mines' (g camines) ownership interest totals 20 percent (previously 17.5 percent). the tenke operation includes surface mining, leaching and sx/ew operations. copper production from the tenke minerals district is sold as copper cathode. in addition to copper, the tenke minerals district produces cobalt hydroxide. refer to "risk factors" contained in part i, item 1a of our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2012 , for discussion of risks associated with operations in africa. operating and development activities. our investment in the initial project approximated $2 billion, and we have received intercompany loan repayments, including interest, of approximately $840 million through december 31, 2012 . an expansion of the project to optimize the current plant and increase capacity was substantially completed in 2012. the expanded mill is capable of throughput of 14,000 metric tons of ore per day, and expanded processing facilities will enable the addition of approximately 150 million pounds of copper production per year. the approximate $850 million expansion project is being completed within budget and included mill upgrades, additional mining equipment, a new tankhouse and an additional sulphuric acid plant (which is expected to be completed in 2015). this expansion project was funded primarily with cash generated from operations. 93 table of contents we continue to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective minerals district at tenke. these analyses are being incorporated in future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion. future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including economic and market conditions and the business and investment climate in the drc. operating data. following is summary operating data for our africa mining operations for the years ended december 31. 2012 2011 2010 copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 348 281 265 sales 336 283 262 average realized price per pound a $ 3.51 $ 3.74 $ 3.45 cobalt (millions of recoverable pounds) production 26 25 20 sales 25 25 20 average realized price per pound $ 7.83 $ 9.99 $ 10.95 ore milled (metric tons per day) 13,000 11,100 10,300 average ore grade (percent): copper 3.62 3.41 3.51 cobalt 0.37 0.40 0.40 copper recovery rate (percent) 92.4 92.5 91.4 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. 2012 compared with 2011 during 2012, tenke achieved record mining, milling and production rates. copper sales volumes from our africa mining operations increased to 336 million pounds of copper in 2012 , compared with 283 million pounds of copper in 2011 , primarily reflecting higher mining and milling rates principally related to the ramp-up of the expansion project. consolidated sales volumes from our africa mining operations are expected to approximate 410 million pounds of copper and 30 million pounds of cobalt in 2013 . 2011 compared with 2010 copper sales volumes from our africa mining operations increased to 283 million pounds of copper in 2011 , compared with 262 million pounds of copper in 2010 , primarily reflecting higher production in 2011 . unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 94 table of contents gross profit per pound of copper and cobalt the following tables summarize the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of copper and cobalt at our africa mining operations for the years ended december 31. refer to production revenues and production costs for an explanation of by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2012 2011 by-product co-product method by-product co-product method method copper cobalt method copper cobalt revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 3.51 $ 3.51 $ 7.83 $ 3.74 $ 3.74 $ 9.99 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.49 1.39 4.86 1.57 1.39 5.58 cobalt credits b (0.33 ) (0.58 ) royalty on metals 0.07 0.06 0.12 0.08 0.07 0.16 unit net cash costs 1.23 1.45 4.98 1.07 1.46 5.74 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.52 0.47 0.67 0.50 0.42 0.78 noncash and other costs, net 0.09 0.08 0.11 0.20 0.18 0.32 total unit costs 1.84 2.00 5.76 1.77 2.06 6.84 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.02 0.02 0.09 0.06 gross profit per pound $ 1.69 $ 1.53 $ 2.16 $ 1.97 $ 1.68 $ 3.21 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 336 336 283 283 cobalt sales (millions of contained pounds) 25 25 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) for our africa mining operations of $1.23 per pound of copper in 2012 were higher than unit net cash costs of $1.07 per pound of copper in 2011 primarily reflecting higher mining and input costs (including sulphuric acid and energy) and lower cobalt credits, partly offset by higher volumes. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and an average cobalt price of $12 per pound for 2013 , we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) would approximate $1.03 per pound of copper in 2013 . africa's unit net cash costs for 2013 would change by $0.09 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of cobalt during 2013 . 2011 2010 by-product co-product method by-product co-product method method copper cobalt method copper cobalt revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 3.74 $ 3.74 $ 9.99 $ 3.45 $ 3.45 $ 10.95 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.57 1.39 5.58 1.40 1.23 5.78 cobalt credits b (0.58 ) (0.58 ) royalty on metals 0.08 0.07 0.16 0.08 0.06 0.19 unit net cash costs 1.07 1.46 5.74 0.90 1.29 5.97 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.50 0.42 0.78 0.49 0.41 1.03 noncash and other costs, net 0.20 0.18 0.32 0.19 0.17 0.39 total unit costs 1.77 2.06 6.84 1.58 1.87 7.39 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.06 0.18 gross profit per pound $ 1.97 $ 1.68 $ 3.21 $ 1.87 $ 1.58 $ 3.74 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 283 283 262 262 cobalt sales (millions of contained pounds) 25 20 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. 95 table of contents b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) for our africa mining operations of $1.07 per pound of copper in 2011 were higher than unit net cash costs of $0.90 per pound of copper in 2010 reflecting increased mining and milling activity and higher input costs. molybdenum we are an integrated producer of molybdenum, with mining, sulfide ore concentrating, roasting and processing facilities that produce high-purity, molybdenum-based chemicals, molybdenum metal powder and metallurgical products, which are sold to customers around the world. our molybdenum operations include the wholly owned henderson underground mine and climax open-pit mine in colorado and related conversion facilities. the henderson and climax mines produce high-purity, chemical-grade molybdenum concentrates, which are typically further processed into value-added molybdenum chemical products. the molybdenum operations also include a sales company that purchases and sells molybdenum from our primary molybdenum mines and from our north and south america copper mines that also produce molybdenum concentrates; and related conversion facilities that, at times, roast and/or process material on a toll basis for third parties. operating and development activities. the climax molybdenum mine was commissioned in second-quarter 2012, and includes a new 25,000 metric ton per day mill facility. climax production in 2012 totaled 7 million pounds of molybdenum and is targeted to produce 20 million pounds of molybdenum for 2013, with potential to produce 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year, depending on market conditions. we intend to operate our climax and henderson mines in a flexible manner to meet market requirements. the cost of the initial phase of the project approximated $760 million. operating data. following is summary operating data for the molybdenum operations for the years ended december 31. 2012 2011 2010 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production a 41 38 40 sales, excluding purchases b 83 79 67 average realized price per pound $ 14.26 $ 16.98 $ 16.47 henderson molybdenum mine ore milled (metric tons per day) 20,800 22,300 22,900 average molybdenum ore grade (percent) 0.23 0.24 0.25 molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 34 38 40 a. the 2012 period includes production from the climax molybdenum mine totaling 7 million pounds reflecting production since the start of commercial operations in may 2012. the 2011 and 2010 periods reflect production only from the henderson molybdenum mine. b. includes sales of molybdenum produced at our north and south america copper mines. 2012 compared with 2011 consolidated molybdenum sales volumes increased to 83 million pounds in 2012 , compared with 79 million pounds for 2011 primarily reflecting the incremental production from the climax molybdenum mine that began commercial operations in may 2012. for the year 2013 , we expect molybdenum sales volumes to approximate 90 million pounds, of which approximately 40 million pounds represents production from our north and south america copper mines. 2011 compared with 2010 consolidated molybdenum sales volumes increased to 79 million pounds in 2011 , compared with 67 million pounds in 2010 , primarily reflecting improved demand. unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of molybdenum is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of 96 table of contents performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. gross profit per pound of molybdenum the following table summarizes the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of molybdenum at our henderson molybdenum mine for the years ended december 31. refer to product revenues and production costs for a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2012 2011 2010 revenues, excluding adjustments $ 14.27 $ 16.42 $ 15.89 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 6.19 5.46 4.82 treatment charges and other 0.88 0.88 1.08 unit net cash costs 7.07 6.34 5.90 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.97 0.96 0.83 noncash and other costs, net 0.24 0.04 0.03 total unit costs 8.28 7.34 6.76 gross profit per pound a $ 5.99 $ 9.08 $ 9.13 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) b 34 38 40 a. gross profit reflects sales of henderson production to our molybdenum sales company based on volumes produced at market-based pricing. on a consolidated basis, the molybdenum division includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. as a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. b. reflects molybdenum produced by the henderson molybdenum mine. henderson's unit net cash costs were $7.07 per pound of molybdenum in 2012 , $6.34 per pound in 2011 and $5.90 per pound in 2010 . henderson's increased unit net cash costs year over year, primarily reflected lower production volumes and higher input costs. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate unit net cash costs for primary molybdenum mines to average $7.00 per pound of molybdenum in 2013 (reflecting approximately $7.50 per pound for henderson and $6.50 per pound for climax). atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining atlantic copper, our wholly owned subsidiary located in spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes. during 2012 , atlantic copper purchased approximately 31 percent of its concentrate requirements from our south america mining operations, approximately 16 percent from our north america copper mines and approximately 10 percent from our indonesia mining operations. through this form of downstream integration, we are assured placement of a significant portion of our concentrate production. smelting and refining charges consist of a base rate and, in certain contracts, price participation based on copper prices. treatment charges for smelting and refining copper concentrates represent a cost to our mining operations, and income to atlantic copper and pt smelting. thus, higher treatment and refining charges benefit our smelter operations and adversely affect our mining operations. our north america copper mines are less significantly affected by changes in treatment and refining charges because these operations are largely integrated with our wholly owned smelter located in miami, arizona. in may 2011, atlantic copper successfully completed a scheduled 26-day maintenance turnaround, which had a $30 million impact on production and delivery costs (refer to note 17 for atlantic copper's operating results). atlantic copper's major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately 50 days to complete) typically occur approximately every eight years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. atlantic copper is planning a major maintenance turnaround in the second half of 2013. we defer recognizing profits on sales from our mining operations to atlantic copper and on 25 percent of indonesia mining sales to pt smelting until final sales to third parties occur. our net deferred profits on our inventories at 97 table of contents atlantic copper and pt smelting to be recognized in future periods' net income after taxes and noncontrolling interests totaled $121 million at december 31, 2012 . changes in these deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in net reductions to net income attributable to common stockholders of $80 million ( $0.08 per share) in 2012 , compared with net additions of $156 million ( $0.16 per share) in 2011 and net reductions of $67 million ( $0.07 per share) in 2010 . quarterly variations in ore grades, the timing of intercompany shipments and changes in product prices will result in variability in our net deferred profits and quarterly earnings. capital resources and liquidity our operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold and molybdenum sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes, other working capital changes and other factors. strong operating performance and favorable copper and gold prices have enabled us to enhance our financial and liquidity position, reduce debt and pay cash dividends to shareholders, while pursuing growth opportunities. we view the long-term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and by the requirements for copper in the world's economy, and will continue to adjust our operating strategy as market conditions change. the discussion of our capital resources and liquidity below does not reflect pending acquisitions (refer to note 20 for further discussion of financing for the pending acquisitions of pxp and mmr). cash and debt at december 31, 2012 , we had consolidated cash and cash equivalents of $3.7 billion . the following table reflects the u.s. and international components of consolidated cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2012 and 2011 (in billions): 2012 2011 cash at domestic companies a $ 1.3 $ 2.4 cash at international operations 2.4 2.4 total consolidated cash and cash equivalents 3.7 4.8 less: noncontrolling interests' share (0.8 ) (0.8 ) cash, net of noncontrolling interests' share 2.9 4.0 less: withholding taxes and other (0.2 ) (0.1 ) net cash available $ 2.7 $ 3.9 a. includes cash at the parent company and our north america operations. cash held at our international operations is generally used to support our foreign operations' capital expenditures, operating expenses, working capital and other tax payments or other cash needs. at december 31, 2012 , management believed that sufficient liquidity was available in the u.s. with the exception of tfm, we have not elected to permanently reinvest earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, and we have recorded deferred tax liabilities for foreign earnings that are available to be repatriated to the u.s. from time to time, our foreign subsidiaries distribute earnings to the u.s. through dividends that are subject to applicable withholding taxes and noncontrolling interests' share. total debt was $3.5 billion at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , and $4.8 billion at december 31, 2010 . we have a senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which is available until march 30, 2016, in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion , with $500 million available to pt freeport indonesia. at december 31, 2012 , we had no borrowings and $43 million of letters of credit issued under the facilities, resulting in availability of approximately $1.5 billion ( $957 million of which could be used for additional letters of credit). the revolving credit facility contains covenants that are typical for investment-grade companies, including limitations on liens and subsidiary debt (see note 9 for further discussion). in february 2013, we entered into a new senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which will refinance and replace our existing revolving credit facility upon completion of the proposed acquisition of pxp. no amounts are currently available to us under the new revolving credit facility. refer to note 20 for further discussion. operating activities during 2012 , we generated operating cash flows totaling $3.8 billion , net of $1.4 billion for working capital uses and other tax payments. operating cash flows in 2011 totaled $6.6 billion , net of $461 million for working capital uses and other tax payments. operating cash flows in 2010 totaled $6.3 billion , net of $834 million for working capital uses and other tax payments. 98 table of contents lower operating cash flows for 2012 , compared with 2011 , primarily reflected lower copper and gold sales volumes, lower copper price realizations and an increase in working capital uses and other tax payments, primarily associated with changes in accounts receivable, partly offset by timing of payments for accounts payable and accrued liabilities. as discussed in "consolidated results - revenues," substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts are provisionally priced; accordingly, the period-end forward price is a major determinate of recorded revenues and the resulting receivables. at december 31, 2012 , our provisionally priced copper sales were recorded at an average of $3.59 per pound of copper, compared with $3.44 per pound at december 31, 2011 . higher operating cash flows for 2011 , compared with 2010 , primarily reflected a decrease in working capital uses and other tax payments, primarily associated with decreases in accounts receivable (at december 31, 2011 , our provisionally priced copper sales were recorded at an average of $3.44 per pound of copper, compared with $4.36 per pound at december 31, 2010 ), partly offset by higher tax payments and the timing of payments for accounts payable and accrued liabilities. excluding impacts for pending acquisitions, and based on current mine plans and subject to future copper, gold and molybdenum prices, we expect estimated operating cash flows for the year 2013 plus available cash to be sufficient to fund our budgeted capital expenditures, dividends, noncontrolling interest distributions and other cash requirements for the year. refer to outlook for further discussion of projected operating cash flows for the year 2013 . investing activities capital expenditures. capital expenditures, including capitalized interest, totaled $3.5 billion in 2012 (including $2.2 billion for major projects), $2.5 billion in 2011 (including $1.4 billion for major projects) and $1.4 billion in 2010 (including $0.7 billion for major projects). the increase in capital expenditures in 2012 , compared with 2011 , primarily reflected higher capital spending associated with the expansion projects at tenke, cerro verde and morenci, and the underground development projects at grasberg. the increase in capital expenditures in 2011 , compared with 2010 , primarily reflected higher capital spending for construction on the climax molybdenum mine, the underground development projects at grasberg and the expansion project at tenke. excluding amounts for pending acquisitions, capital expenditures for the year 2013 are expected to approximate $4.6 billion , including $2.8 billion for major projects and $1.8 billion for sustaining capital. major projects for 2013 primarily include underground development activities at grasberg and the expansion projects at cerro verde and morenci. we are also considering additional investments at several of our sites. capital spending plans will continue to be reviewed and adjusted in response to changes in market conditions and other factors. refer to operations for further discussion. investment in mmr. in december 2010, we completed the purchase of 500,000 shares of mmr's 5.75% convertible perpetual preferred stock for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million. dividends received in 2012 and 2011 were recorded as a return of investment because of mmr's reported losses. refer to note 6 for further discussion and to note 1 for discussion of the proposed acquisition of mmr. financing activities debt transactions. in february 2012, we sold $3.0 billion in senior notes in three tranches with a weighted-average interest rate of approximately three percent. net proceeds from this offering, plus cash on hand, were used to redeem the remaining $3.0 billion of our 8.375% senior notes. during 2011, we redeemed the remaining $1.1 billion of our outstanding 8.25% senior notes. in addition, we made open-market purchases of $35 million of our 9.5% senior notes and repaid the remaining $84 million of our 8.75% senior notes. during 2010, we redeemed all of our $1 billion senior floating rate notes, and also made open-market purchases of $565 million of our senior notes. refer to note 9 for further discussion of these debt repayment transactions. 99 table of contents dividends and other equity transactions. we paid dividends on our common stock totaling $1.1 billion in 2012 , $1.4 billion in 2011 (including $474 million for a supplemental dividend on our common stock paid in june 2011) and $885 million in 2010 (including $472 million for a supplemental dividend on our common stock paid in december 2010). the current annual dividend rate for our common stock is $1.25 per share ( $0.3125 per share quarterly). refer to note 11 for further discussion. the declaration of dividends is at the discretion of the board and will depend upon our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, the impact of proposed acquisitions and other factors deemed relevant by the board. the board will continue to review our financial policy on an ongoing basis. during 2010, our 6 % mandatory convertible preferred stock converted into 78.9 million shares of our common stock (refer to note 11 for further discussion). as a result, we no longer have requirements to pay preferred stock dividends. preferred stock dividends paid totaled $95 million in 2010. cash dividends and other distributions paid to noncontrolling interests totaled $113 million in 2012 , $391 million in 2011 and $816 million in 2010 , reflecting dividends and distributions paid to the noncontrolling interest owners of pt freeport indonesia and our south america mines. lower noncontrolling interest payments in 2012 compared with 2011, primarily reflected lower dividends to the noncontrolling interest holders of pt freeport indonesia as a result of lower production in 2012. lower noncontrolling interest payments in 2011, compared with 2010, primarily reflected lower dividends to the noncontrolling interest holders of cerro verde related to capital retained for the expansion project. contractual obligations we have contractual and other long-term obligations, including debt maturities, which we expect to fund with available cash, projected operating cash flows, availability under our revolving credit facility or future financing transactions, if necessary. a summary of these various obligations at december 31, 2012 , follows (in millions): total 2013 2014 to 2015 2016 to 2017 thereafter reclamation and environmental obligations a $ 5,243 $ 246 $ 471 $ 329 $ 4,197 debt maturities 3,527 2 500 500 2,525 take-or-pay contracts b 2,200 976 731 286 207 scheduled interest payment obligations c 1,289 121 241 226 701 operating lease obligations 205 32 38 31 104 total d $ 12,464 $ 1,377 $ 1,981 $ 1,372 $ 7,734 a. represents estimated cash payments, on an undiscounted and unescalated basis, associated with reclamation and environmental activities. the timing and the amount of these payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and timing of reclamation activities, the settlement of environmental matters and as actual spending occurs. refer to note 13 for additional discussion of environmental and reclamation matters. b. represents contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services that are defined by us as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. take-or-pay contracts primarily comprise the procurement of copper concentrates ( $799 million ), electricity ( $524 million ) and transportation services ( $448 million ). some of our take-or-pay contracts are settled based on the prevailing market rate for the service or commodity purchased, and in some cases, the amount of the actual obligation may change over time because of market conditions. obligations for copper concentrates provide for deliveries of specified volumes to atlantic copper at market-based prices. electricity obligations are primarily for contractual minimum demand at the south america and tenke mines. transportation obligations are primarily for south america contracted ocean freight and for north america rail freight. c. scheduled interest payment obligations were calculated using stated coupon rates for fixed-rate debt and interest rates applicable at december 31, 2012 , for variable-rate debt. d. this table excludes certain other obligations in our consolidated balance sheets, including estimated funding for pension obligations as the funding may vary from year to year based on changes in the fair value of plan assets and actuarial assumptions, accrued liabilities totaling $107 million that relate to unrecognized tax benefits where the timing of settlement is not determinable; atlantic copper's obligations for retired employees totaling $38 million (refer to note 10 ); and pt freeport indonesia's reclamation and closure cash fund obligation totaling $17 million (refer to note 13 ).this table also excludes purchase orders for the purchase of inventory and other goods and services, as purchase orders typically represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. 100 table of contents in addition to our debt maturities and other contractual obligations discussed above, we have other commitments, which we expect to fund with available cash, projected operating cash flows, available credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. these include (i) pt freeport indonesia's commitment to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the freeport partnership fund for community development, (ii) tfm's commitment to provide 0.3 percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations and (iii) other commercial commitments, including standby letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees. refer to notes 13 and 14 for further discussion. contingencies environmental the cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. at december 31, 2012 , we had $1.2 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for environmental obligations attributed to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental obligations that are considered probable based on specific facts and circumstances. during 2012 , we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) of $612 million for programs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations, compared to $387 million in 2011 and $372 million in 2010 . the increase in environmental costs in 2012, compared with 2011 and 2010, primarily relates to higher expenditures for land and settlements of environmental matters (see note 13 for further discussion). for 2013 , we expect to incur approximately $600 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2013 operating budget. the timing and amount of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and timing of reclamation activities, the settlement of environmental matters and as actual spending occurs. refer to note 13 for further information about environmental regulation, including significant environmental matters. asset retirement obligations we recognize aros as liabilities when incurred, with the initial measurement at fair value. these obligations, which are initially estimated based on discounted cash flow estimates, are accreted to full value over time through charges to income. reclamation costs for disturbances are recorded as an aro in the period of disturbance. our cost estimates are reflected on a third-party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible, long-lived assets. at december 31, 2012 , we had $1.1 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for aros. spending on aros totaled $47 million in 2012 , $49 million in 2011 and $38 million in 2010 . for 2013 , we expect to incur approximately $55 million for aggregate aro payments. refer to note 13 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs. litigation and other contingencies refer to note 13 and "legal proceedings" contained in part i, item 3 of our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2012 , for further discussion of contingencies associated with legal proceedings and other matters. disclosures about market risks commodity price risk our consolidated revenues include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, gold, molybdenum and other metals by our north and south america mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our indonesia mining operations, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes and gold in anodes and slimes by atlantic copper. our financial results can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. world market prices for these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. because we cannot control the price of our products, the key measures that management focuses on in operating our business are sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flow. refer to outlook for further discussion of projected sales volumes, unit net cash costs and operating cash flows for 2013 . 101 table of contents for 2012 , 46 percent of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, 28 percent as cathode and 26 percent as rod from our north america operations. substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices. we receive market prices based on prices in the specified future period, which results in price fluctuations recorded through revenues until the date of settlement. we record revenues and invoice customers at the time of shipment based on then-current lme prices, which results in an embedded derivative on our provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales that is adjusted to fair value through earnings each period, using the period-end forward prices, until the date of final pricing. to the extent final prices are higher or lower than what was recorded on a provisional basis, an increase or decrease to revenues is recorded each reporting period until the date of final pricing. accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from adjustments to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs. following are the favorable (unfavorable) impacts of net adjustments to the prior years' provisionally priced copper sales for the years ended december 31 (in millions, except per share amounts): 2012 2011 2010 revenues $ 101 $ (12 ) $ (24 ) net income attributable to fcx common stockholders $ 43 $ (5 ) $ (10 ) net income per share of fcx common stock $ 0.05 $ (0.01 ) $ (0.01 ) at december 31, 2012 , we had provisionally priced copper sales at our copper mining operations, primarily south america and indonesia, totaling 341 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average price of $3.59 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. we estimate that each $0.05 change in the price realized from the december 31, 2012 , provisional price recorded would have a net impact on our 2013 consolidated revenues of approximately $24 million ( $11 million to net income attributable to common stockholders). the lme spot copper price closed at $3.72 per pound on february 15, 2013 . on limited past occasions, in response to market conditions, we have entered into copper and gold price protection contracts for a portion of our expected future mine production to mitigate the risk of adverse price fluctuations. we do not currently intend to enter into similar hedging programs in the future. foreign currency exchange risk the functional currency for most of our operations is the u.s. dollar. all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in u.s. dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the indonesian rupiah, australian dollar, chilean peso, peruvian nuevo sol, and euro. generally, our results are positively affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the u.s. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. following is a summary of estimated annual payments and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs: exchange rate per $1 at december 31, estimated annual payments 10% change in exchange rate (in millions) a 2012 2011 2010 (in local currency) (in millions) b increase decrease indonesia rupiah 9,622 9,060 8,990 5.3 trillion $ 551 $ (50 ) $ 61 australian dollar 0.93 0.98 0.98 230 million $ 246 $ (22 ) $ 27 south america chilean peso 480 519 468 300 billion $ 625 $ (57 ) $ 69 peruvian nuevo sol 2.55 2.70 2.81 380 million $ 149 $ (14 ) $ 17 atlantic copper euro 0.76 0.77 0.75 140 million $ 185 $ (17 ) $ 21 a. reflects the estimated impact on annual operating costs assuming a 10 percent increase or decrease in the exchange rate reported at december 31, 2012 . b. based on december 31, 2012 , exchange rates. 102 table of contents interest rate risk at december 31, 2012 , we had total debt of $3.5 billion , of which approximately five percent was variable-rate debt with interest rates based on the london interbank offered rate (libor) or the euro interbank offered rate (euribor). the table below presents average interest rates for our scheduled maturities of principal for our outstanding debt and the related fair values at december 31, 2012 (in millions, except percentages): 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ 500 $ $ 500 $ 2,357 $ 3,419 average interest rate % % 1.4 % % 2.2 % 4.2 % 3.5 % variable-rate debt $ 2 $ $ $ $ $ 168 $ 170 average interest rate % a % % % % 4.0 % 4.0 % a. less than 0.01%. new accounting standards we do not expect the provisions of recently issued accounting standards to have a significant impact on our future financial statements and disclosures. off-balance sheet arrangements refer to note 14 for discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements. product revenues and production costs unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. we present gross profit per pound of copper in the following tables using both a by-product method and a co-product method. we use the by-product method in our presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of our revenues are copper revenues, (ii) we mine ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of our costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals we produce, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by our management and the board to monitor operations. in the co-product method presentation below, shared costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent our metals sales volumes and realized prices change. we show revenue adjustments for prior period open sales as separate line items. because these adjustments do not result from current period sales, we have reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. noncash and other costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, start-up costs, write-offs of equipment and/or unusual charges. they are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. as discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method. following are presentations under both the by-product and co-product methods together with reconciliations to amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. 103 table of contents north america copper mines product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper molybdenum a other b total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,908 $ 4,908 $ 468 $ 91 $ 5,467 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2,572 2,357 227 60 2,644 by-product credits a (487 ) treatment charges 161 147 14 161 net cash costs 2,246 2,504 227 74 2,805 depreciation, depletion and amortization 346 323 18 5 346 noncash and other costs, net 138 134 3 1 138 total costs 2,730 2,961 248 80 3,289 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 4 4 4 gross profit $ 2,182 $ 1,951 $ 220 $ 11 $ 2,182 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,467 $ 2,644 $ 346 treatment charges n/a 161 n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 138 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 4 n/a n/a eliminations and other 19 69 16 north america copper mines 5,490 3,012 362 south america mining 4,728 2,114 287 indonesia mining 3,921 2,349 212 africa mining 1,359 615 176 molybdenum 1,255 1,033 65 rod &amp; refining 5,016 4,993 9 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,709 2,640 42 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,468 ) (6,374 ) 26 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,010 $ 10,382 $ 1,179 a. molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market-based pricing. b. includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs . 104 table of contents north america copper mines product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper molybdenum a other b total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,968 $ 4,968 $ 546 $ 111 $ 5,625 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2,213 1,987 238 46 2,271 by-product credits a (599 ) treatment charges 138 132 6 138 net cash costs 1,752 2,119 238 52 2,409 depreciation, depletion and amortization 264 247 13 4 264 noncash and other costs, net 166 161 4 1 166 total costs 2,182 2,527 255 57 2,839 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) gross profit $ 2,785 $ 2,440 $ 291 $ 54 $ 2,785 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,625 $ 2,271 $ 264 treatment charges n/a 138 n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 166 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (1 ) n/a n/a eliminations and other 9 54 15 north america copper mines 5,633 2,629 279 south america mining 5,258 1,905 258 indonesia mining 5,046 1,791 215 africa mining 1,289 591 140 molybdenum 1,424 1,036 60 rod &amp; refining 5,549 5,527 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,984 2,991 40 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,303 ) (6,572 ) 22 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market-based pricing. b. includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. 105 table of contents north america copper mines product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper molybdenum a other b total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3,702 $ 3,702 $ 383 $ 58 $ 4,143 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,621 1,456 195 29 1,680 by-product credits a (382 ) treatment charges 105 102 3 105 net cash costs 1,344 1,558 195 32 1,785 depreciation, depletion and amortization 256 241 13 2 256 noncash and other costs, net 218 217 1 218 total costs 1,818 2,016 209 34 2,259 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (2 ) (2 ) (2 ) gross profit $ 1,882 $ 1,684 $ 174 $ 24 $ 1,882 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 4,143 $ 1,680 $ 256 treatment charges n/a 105 n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 218 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (2 ) n/a n/a eliminations and other 32 49 17 north america copper mines 4,173 2,052 273 south america mining 4,991 1,678 250 indonesia mining 6,377 1,946 257 africa mining 1,106 488 128 molybdenum 1,205 784 51 rod &amp; refining 4,470 4,442 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,491 2,470 38 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (5,831 ) (5,525 ) 31 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,335 $ 1,036 a. molybdenum credits and revenues reflect volumes produced at market-based pricing. b. includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. 106 table of contents south america mining product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper other total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,462 $ 4,462 $ 355 a $ 4,817 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,995 b 1,846 173 2,019 by-product credits (331 ) treatment charges 202 202 202 net cash costs 1,866 2,048 173 2,221 depreciation, depletion and amortization 287 272 15 287 noncash and other costs, net 110 75 35 110 total costs 2,263 2,395 223 2,618 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 106 106 106 gross profit $ 2,305 $ 2,173 $ 132 $ 2,305 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 4,817 $ 2,019 $ 287 treatment charges (202 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 110 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 106 n/a n/a eliminations and other 7 (15 ) south america mining 4,728 2,114 287 north america copper mines 5,490 3,012 362 indonesia mining 3,921 2,349 212 africa mining 1,359 615 176 molybdenum 1,255 1,033 65 rod &amp; refining 5,016 4,993 9 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,709 2,640 42 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,468 ) (6,374 ) 26 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,010 $ 10,382 $ 1,179 a. includes gold sales of 82 thousand ounces ( $1,673 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 3.2 million ounces ( $30.33 per ounce average realized price); also includes sales of cerro verde production to our molybdenum sales company of 8 million pounds ( $10.58 per pound average realized price), which reflects molybdenum produced at market-based pricing. b. includes charges totaling $16 million associated with labor agreement costs at candelaria. 107 table of contents south america mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper other total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,989 $ 4,989 $ 477 a $ 5,466 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,826 b 1,679 172 1,851 by-product credits (452 ) treatment charges 219 219 219 net cash costs 1,593 1,898 172 2,070 depreciation, depletion and amortization 258 242 16 258 noncash and other costs, net 82 75 7 82 total costs 1,933 2,215 195 2,410 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 15 (4 ) 19 15 gross profit $ 3,071 $ 2,770 $ 301 $ 3,071 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,466 $ 1,851 $ 258 treatment charges (219 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 82 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 15 n/a n/a eliminations and other (4 ) (28 ) south america mining 5,258 1,905 258 north america copper mines 5,633 2,629 279 indonesia mining 5,046 1,791 215 africa mining 1,289 591 140 molybdenum 1,424 1,036 60 rod &amp; refining 5,549 5,527 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,984 2,991 40 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,303 ) (6,572 ) 22 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. includes gold sales of 101 thousand ounces ( $1,580 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 3.2 million ounces ( $36.81 per ounce average realized price); also includes sales of cerro verde production to our molybdenum sales company of 10 million pounds ( $13.78 per pound average realized price), which reflects molybdenum produced at market-based pricing. b. includes $50 million for bonuses paid at cerro verde and el abra pursuant to new labor agreements. 108 table of contents south america mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper other total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,911 $ 4,911 $ 299 a $ 5,210 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,613 1,521 110 1,631 by-product credits (281 ) treatment charges 207 207 207 net cash costs 1,539 1,728 110 1,838 depreciation, depletion and amortization 249 237 12 249 noncash and other costs, net 63 58 5 63 total costs 1,851 2,023 127 2,150 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (14 ) (14 ) (14 ) gross profit $ 3,046 $ 2,874 $ 172 $ 3,046 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,210 $ 1,631 $ 249 treatment charges (207 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 63 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (14 ) n/a n/a eliminations and other 2 (16 ) 1 south america mining 4,991 1,678 250 north america copper mines 4,173 2,052 273 indonesia mining 6,377 1,946 257 africa mining 1,106 488 128 molybdenum 1,205 784 51 rod &amp; refining 4,470 4,442 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,491 2,470 38 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (5,831 ) (5,525 ) 31 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,335 $ 1,036 a. includes gold sales of 93 thousand ounces ( $1,263 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 2.7 million ounces ( $20.53 per ounce average realized price); also includes sales of cerro verde production to our molybdenum sales company of 7 million pounds ( $14.12 per pound average realized price), which reflects molybdenum produced at market-based pricing. 109 table of contents indonesia mining product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper gold silver total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 2,564 $ 2,564 $ 1,522 $ 64 a $ 4,150 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2,230 1,378 818 34 2,230 gold and silver credits (1,589 ) treatment charges 152 94 56 2 152 royalty on metals 93 58 34 1 93 net cash costs 886 1,530 908 37 2,475 depreciation and amortization 212 131 78 3 212 noncash and other costs, net 82 50 30 2 82 total costs 1,180 1,711 1,016 42 2,769 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 13 13 3 16 pt smelting intercompany loss (37 ) (23 ) (13 ) (1 ) (37 ) gross profit $ 1,360 $ 843 $ 496 $ 21 $ 1,360 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 4,150 $ 2,230 $ 212 treatment charges (152 ) n/a n/a royalty on metals (93 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 82 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 16 n/a n/a pt smelting intercompany loss n/a 37 n/a indonesia mining 3,921 2,349 212 north america copper mines 5,490 3,012 362 south america mining 4,728 2,114 287 africa mining 1,359 615 176 molybdenum 1,255 1,033 65 rod &amp; refining 5,016 4,993 9 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,709 2,640 42 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,468 ) (6,374 ) 26 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,010 $ 10,382 $ 1,179 a. includes silver sales of 2.1 million ounces ( $30.70 per ounce average realized price). 110 table of contents indonesia mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper gold silver total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3,261 $ 3,261 $ 2,011 $ 97 a $ 5,369 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,869 b 1,135 700 34 1,869 gold and silver credits (2,090 ) treatment charges 156 95 58 3 156 royalty on metals 137 83 52 2 137 net cash costs 72 1,313 810 39 2,162 depreciation and amortization 215 131 80 4 215 noncash and other costs, net 33 20 12 1 33 total costs 320 1,464 902 44 2,410 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (12 ) (12 ) (18 ) (30 ) pt smelting intercompany profit 111 67 41 3 111 gross profit $ 3,040 $ 1,852 $ 1,132 $ 56 $ 3,040 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,369 $ 1,869 $ 215 treatment charges (156 ) n/a n/a royalty on metals (137 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 33 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (30 ) n/a n/a pt smelting intercompany profit n/a (111 ) n/a indonesia mining 5,046 1,791 215 north america copper mines 5,633 2,629 279 south america mining 5,258 1,905 258 africa mining 1,289 591 140 molybdenum 1,424 1,036 60 rod &amp; refining 5,549 5,527 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,984 2,991 40 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,303 ) (6,572 ) 22 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. includes silver sales of 2.7 million ounces ( $36.18 per ounce average realized price). b. includes $66 million associated with bonuses and other strike-related costs. 111 table of contents indonesia mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper gold silver total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,475 $ 4,475 $ 2,243 $ 90 a $ 6,808 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,856 1,220 612 24 1,856 gold and silver credits (2,334 ) treatment charges 270 178 89 3 270 royalty on metals 156 102 51 3 156 net cash (credits) costs (52 ) 1,500 752 30 2,282 depreciation and amortization 257 169 85 3 257 noncash and other costs, net 48 31 16 1 48 total costs 253 1,700 853 34 2,587 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (6 ) (6 ) 1 (5 ) pt smelting intercompany loss (42 ) (28 ) (14 ) (42 ) gross profit $ 4,174 $ 2,741 $ 1,377 $ 56 $ 4,174 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 6,808 $ 1,856 $ 257 treatment charges (270 ) n/a n/a royalty on metals (156 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 48 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (5 ) n/a n/a pt smelting intercompany loss n/a 42 n/a indonesia mining 6,377 1,946 257 north america copper mines 4,173 2,052 273 south america mining 4,991 1,678 250 africa mining 1,106 488 128 molybdenum 1,205 784 51 rod &amp; refining 4,470 4,442 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,491 2,470 38 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (5,831 ) (5,525 ) 31 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,335 $ 1,036 a. includes silver sales of 4.1 million ounces ( $21.99 per ounce average realized price). 112 table of contents africa mining product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper cobalt total revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 1,179 $ 1,179 $ 194 $ 1,373 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 501 465 121 586 cobalt credits b (112 ) royalty on metals 25 22 3 25 net cash costs 414 487 124 611 depreciation, depletion and amortization 176 160 16 176 noncash and other costs, net 29 26 3 29 total costs 619 673 143 816 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 8 8 3 11 gross profit $ 568 $ 514 $ 54 $ 568 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 1,373 $ 586 $ 176 royalty on metals (25 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 29 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 11 n/a n/a africa mining 1,359 615 176 north america copper mines 5,490 3,012 362 south america mining 4,728 2,114 287 indonesia mining 3,921 2,349 212 molybdenum 1,255 1,033 65 rod &amp; refining 5,016 4,993 9 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,709 2,640 42 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,468 ) (6,374 ) 26 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,010 $ 10,382 $ 1,179 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. 113 table of contents africa mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper cobalt total revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 1,059 $ 1,059 $ 253 $ 1,312 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 444 393 141 534 cobalt credits b (165 ) royalty on metals 24 20 4 24 net cash costs 303 413 145 558 depreciation, depletion and amortization 140 120 20 140 noncash and other costs, net 57 49 8 57 total costs 500 582 173 755 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (1 ) (1 ) 2 1 gross profit $ 558 $ 476 $ 82 $ 558 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 1,312 $ 534 $ 140 royalty on metals (24 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 57 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 1 n/a n/a africa mining 1,289 591 140 north america copper mines 5,633 2,629 279 south america mining 5,258 1,905 258 indonesia mining 5,046 1,791 215 molybdenum 1,424 1,036 60 rod &amp; refining 5,549 5,527 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,984 2,991 40 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,303 ) (6,572 ) 22 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. 114 table of contents africa mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper cobalt total revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 904 $ 904 $ 218 $ 1,122 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 366 323 115 438 cobalt credits b (150 ) royalty on metals 20 16 4 20 net cash costs 236 339 119 458 depreciation, depletion and amortization 128 107 21 128 noncash and other costs, net 50 43 7 50 total costs 414 489 147 636 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 4 4 gross profit $ 490 $ 415 $ 75 $ 490 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 1,122 $ 438 $ 128 royalty on metals (20 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 50 n/a revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 4 n/a n/a africa mining 1,106 488 128 north america copper mines 4,173 2,052 273 south america mining 4,991 1,678 250 indonesia mining 6,377 1,946 257 molybdenum 1,205 784 51 rod &amp; refining 4,470 4,442 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,491 2,470 38 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (5,831 ) (5,525 ) 31 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,335 $ 1,036 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. 115 table of contents henderson molybdenum mine product revenues and production costs years ended december 31, (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 revenues, excluding adjustments $ 484 $ 628 $ 637 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 210 209 193 treatment charges and other 30 33 43 net cash costs 240 242 236 depreciation, depletion and amortization 33 37 34 noncash and other costs, net 8 2 1 total costs 281 281 271 gross profit a $ 203 $ 347 $ 366 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and year ended december 31, 2012 revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 484 $ 210 $ 33 treatment charges and other (30 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 8 n/a henderson mine 454 218 33 other molybdenum operations and eliminations b 801 815 32 molybdenum 1,255 1,033 65 north america copper mines 5,490 3,012 362 south america mining 4,728 2,114 287 indonesia mining 3,921 2,349 212 africa mining 1,359 615 176 rod &amp; refining 5,016 4,993 9 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,709 2,640 42 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,468 ) (6,374 ) 26 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,010 $ 10,382 $ 1,179 year ended december 31, 2011 totals presented above $ 628 $ 209 $ 37 treatment charges and other (33 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 2 n/a henderson mine 595 211 37 other molybdenum operations and eliminations b 829 825 23 molybdenum 1,424 1,036 60 north america copper mines 5,633 2,629 279 south america mining 5,258 1,905 258 indonesia mining 5,046 1,791 215 africa mining 1,289 591 140 rod &amp; refining 5,549 5,527 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,984 2,991 40 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (6,303 ) (6,572 ) 22 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 year ended december 31, 2010 totals presented above $ 637 $ 193 $ 34 treatment charges and other (43 ) n/a n/a net noncash and other costs n/a 1 n/a henderson mine 594 194 34 other molybdenum operations and eliminations b 611 590 17 molybdenum 1,205 784 51 north america copper mines 4,173 2,052 273 south america mining 4,991 1,678 250 indonesia mining 6,377 1,946 257 africa mining 1,106 488 128 rod &amp; refining 4,470 4,442 8 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,491 2,470 38 corporate, other &amp; eliminations (5,831 ) (5,525 ) 31 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,982 $ 8,335 $ 1,036 116 table of contents a. gross profit reflects sales of henderson production to our molybdenum sales company based on volumes produced at market-based pricing. on a consolidated basis, the molybdenum division includes profits on sales as they are made to third parties and realizations based on actual contract terms. as a result, the actual gross profit realized will differ from the amounts reported in this table. b. primarily includes amounts associated with the molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced by our north and south america copper mines. also includes the results of the climax molybdenum mine, which commenced commercial production in may 2012. cautionary statement our discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our future performance. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as those statements regarding projected ore grades and milling rates, projected production and sales volumes, projected unit net cash costs, projected operating cash flows, projected capital expenditures, exploration efforts and results, mine production and development plans, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, liquidity, other financial commitments and tax rates, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum and cobalt price changes, future dividend payments and potential share purchases. the words anticipates, may, can, plans, believes, estimates, expects, projects, intends, likely, will, should, to be, and any similar expressions are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements. the declaration of dividends is at the discretion of our board and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, the impact of proposed acquisitions and other factors deemed relevant by the board. we caution readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include commodity prices, mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, regulatory changes, political risks, the outcome of ongoing discussions with the indonesian government, the potential effects of violence in indonesia, the resolution of administrative disputes in the drc, weather- and climate-related risks, labor relations, environmental risks, litigation results, currency translation risks, risks associated with the completion of pending acquisitions and other factors described in more detail under the heading risk factors in our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2012 , filed with the sec as updated by our subsequent filings with the sec. investors are cautioned that many of the assumptions on which our forward-looking statements are based are likely to change after our forward-looking statements are made, including for example commodity prices, which we cannot control, and production volumes and costs, some aspects of which we may or may not be able to control. further, we may make changes to our business plans that could or will affect our results. we caution investors that we do not intend to update our forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly notwithstanding any changes in our assumptions, changes in our business plans, our actual experience or other changes, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 117 table of contentsrisk factors 48 "risk factors" for further information on labor matters. location number of unions number of union- represented employees expiration date pt-fi indonesia 1 9,356 september 2015 tfm drc 6 3,327 n/a a cerro verde peru 2 1,846 august 2018 b el abra chile 2 1,007 may 2016 candelaria chile 2 904 december 2016 atlantic copper spain 2 450 december 2015 kokkola - finland 3 410 november 2016 chino new mexico 1 352 november 2014 rotterdam the netherlands 2 62 march 2015 aurex chile 1 38 december 2017 bayway new jersey 1 37 april 2016 stowmarket united kingdom 1 31 may 2014 6 table of contents a. the collective labor agreement (cla) between tfm and its workers' unions has no expiration date, but can be amended at any time in accordance with an established process. additionally, in september 2012 tfm negotiated a 4-year salary scale with union-represented employees. b. in november 2013, cerro verde signed a new four-year cla, which is effective september 1, 2014, upon the expiration of the current agreement. environmental and reclamation matters the cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. for information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to item 1a. risk factors and notes 1 and 12 . competition the top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately 50 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. we currently rank second among those producers, with approximately eight percent of total worldwide estimated mined copper production. our competitive position is based on the size, quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. we have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. the metals markets are cyclical and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to manage our costs. within the oil and gas industry, our competitors include national and international oil companies, major integrated oil and gas companies, numerous independent oil and gas companies and others. there is substantial competition in the oil and gas industry. our ability to identify and successfully develop additional prospects and to discover oil and gas reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties, consummate transactions and manage our operations in a cost-efficient and effective manner in a highly competitive environment. mining operations following are maps and descriptions of our mining operations in north america (including both copper and molybdenum operations), south america, indonesia and africa. north america in the u.s., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, sx/ew facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is generally owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. certain portions of our bagdad, sierrita, miami, chino, tyrone, henderson and climax operations are located on government-owned land and are operated under a mine plan of operations or other use permit. various federal and state permits or leases on government land are held for purposes incidental to mine operations. morenci we own an 85 percent undivided interest in morenci, with the remaining 15 percent owned by affiliates of sumitomo corporation. each partner takes in kind its share of morenci's production. 7 table of contents morenci is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. morenci is located in greenlee county, arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of safford on u.s. highway 191. the site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur. the morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide. the morenci operation consists of a 50,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator, that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates; a 68,000 metric ton-per-day crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a low-grade run-of-mine (rom) leaching system; four sx plants; and three ew tank houses that produce copper cathode. total ew tank house capacity is approximately 900 million pounds of copper per year. morenci's concentrate leach, direct-electrowinning facility was commissioned in 2007 and processed copper concentrate until early 2009 when it was placed on care-and-maintenance status. the available mining fleet consists of one hundred and seven 236-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 12 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 57 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 815,000 metric tons of material per day. morenci's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 664 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 , 632 million pounds of copper and 3 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 , and 614 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 . morenci is expanding mining and milling capacity to process additional sulfide ores identified through exploratory drilling. the project is targeting incremental annual production (net of our joint venture partner's share) of approximately 225 million pounds of copper beginning in 2014 through an increase in milling rates from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day. refer to mining development projects and exploration for further discussion. morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 840 meters above sea level. the morenci operation encompasses approximately 64,750 acres, comprising 50,800 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 10,900 acres of unpatented mining claims and 3,050 acres of land held by state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-way. the morenci operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility (in which we own a one-third interest) in deming, new mexico. although we believe the morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the morenci operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. bagdad our wholly owned bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in yavapai county in west-central arizona. it is approximately 60 miles west of prescott and 100 miles northwest of phoenix. the property can be reached by arizona highway 96, which ends at the town of bagdad. the closest railroad is at 8 table of contents hillside, arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on arizona highway 96. the open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings. the bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite. the bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, an sx/ew plant that can produce up to 25 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure leach plant to process molybdenum concentrates. the available mining fleet consists of thirty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 44 to 62 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day. bagdad's production totaled 216 million pounds of copper and 8 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 , 197 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 , and 194 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 . bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 310 meters above sea level. the bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,750 acres, comprising 21,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 600 acres of unpatented mining claims. bagdad receives electrical power from arizona public service company. although we believe the bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may set legal precedents, which could adversely affect our water rights at bagdad and at our other properties in arizona. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. safford our wholly owned safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in graham county, arizona, approximately eight miles north of the town of safford and 170 miles east of phoenix. the site is accessible by paved county road off u.s. highway 70. the safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite. the property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathodes. the operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. the crushed ore is delivered to leach pads by a series of overland and portable conveyors. leach solutions feed a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. a sulphur burner plant is also in operation at safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in sx/ew operations. the available mining fleet consists of twenty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 225,000 metric tons of material per day. 9 table of contents safford's copper production totaled 146 million pounds in 2013 , 175 million pounds in 2012 and 151 million pounds in 2011 . safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. the safford operation encompasses approximately 25,000 acres, comprising 21,000 acres of patented lands, 3,950 acres of unpatented lands and 50 acres of land held by federal permit. the safford operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility. although we believe the safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the safford operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. sierrita our wholly owned sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in pima county, arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of tucson and seven miles west of the town of green valley and interstate highway 19. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. the sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates. sierrita also produces copper from a rom oxide-leaching system. cathode copper is plated at the twin buttes ew facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. the sierrita operation also has a copper sulfate crystal plant, which has the capacity to produce 40 million pounds of copper sulfate per year, and molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. the molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. the available mining fleet consists of twenty-five 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day. sierrita's production totaled 171 million pounds of copper and 20 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 , 157 million pounds of copper and 21 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 , and 177 million pounds of copper and 23 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 . sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. the sierrita operation, including the adjacent twin buttes site (refer to "smelting facilities and other mining properties" for further discussion), encompasses approximately 37,650 acres, comprising 13,300 acres of patented mining claims and 24,350 acres of split-estate lands. 10 table of contents sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the tucson electric power company. although we believe the sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the sierrita operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. miami our wholly owned miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in gila county, arizona, approximately 90 miles east of phoenix and six miles west of the city of globe on u.s. highway 60. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. since about 1915, the miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. current operations include leaching by the sx/ew process. the design capacity of the sx/ew plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. the available mining fleet consists of twelve 227-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 95,000 metric tons of material per day. miami's copper production totaled 61 million pounds in 2013 and 66 million pounds in both 2012 and 2011 . miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom will have an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. the miami operation encompasses approximately 9,100 acres, comprising 8,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 350 acres of unpatented mining claims. miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the salt river project and natural gas through long-term contracts with el paso natural gas as the transporter. although we believe the miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the miami operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 11 table of contents chino and tyrone chino our wholly owned chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in southwestern new mexico in grant county, approximately 15 miles east of the town of silver city off of state highway 180. the mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. chino has been in operation since 1910. the chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. there is leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and millable primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and azurite. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides. the chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, and a 150 million pound-per-year sx/ew plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by rom leaching. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-five 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 42 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 220,000 metric tons of material per day. ramp up activities at chino are continuing, with production of approximately 250 million pounds of copper per year targeted in 2014. chino's production totaled 171 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 , 144 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 , and 69 million pounds of copper in 2011 . chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,500 meters above sea level. the chino operation encompasses approximately 118,600 acres, comprising 113,200 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 5,400 acres of unpatented mining claims. chino receives power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations. tyrone our wholly owned tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. it is located in southwestern new mexico in grant county, approximately 10 miles south of silver city, new mexico, along state highway 90. the site is accessible by paved road and rail. the tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla. copper processing facilities consist of a sx/ew operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathodes per year. the available mining fleet consists of nineteen 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 47 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 135,000 metric tons of material per day. tyrone's copper production totaled 96 million pounds in 2013 , 83 million pounds in 2012 and 76 million pounds in 2011 . 12 table of contents tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. the tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 16,450 acres of unpatented mining claims. tyrone receives electrical power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe the tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. henderson and climax henderson our wholly owned henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of denver, colorado, off u.s. highway 40. nearby communities include the towns of empire, georgetown and idaho springs. the henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from colorado state highway 9. the henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the continental divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. the tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill. the henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 40 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our fort madison, iowa, processing facility. the available underground mining equipment fleet consists of fourteen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (lhd) units and six 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles. henderson's molybdenum production totaled 30 million pounds in 2013 , 34 million pounds in 2012 and 38 million pounds in 2011 . the henderson mine is located in a mountainous region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. the main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,900 acres, comprising 11,850 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and a 50-acre easement with the u.s. forest service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor. henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. climax our wholly owned climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of leadville, colorado, off colorado state highway 91 at the top of fremont pass. the mine is accessible by paved roads . 13 table of contents the climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the climax open-pit mine was commissioned in second-quarter 2012 and includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. the available mining fleet consists of nine 177-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two hydraulic shovels with bucket sizes of 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 90,000 metric tons of material per day. molybdenum production from climax totaled 19 million pounds in 2013 and 7 million pounds in 2012 (reflecting production since the start of commercial operations in may 2012). the climax mine is located in a mountainous region with snowfall averaging 23 feet per year. the highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. the operations encompass approximately 14,350 acres, consisting primarily of patented mining claims and other fee lands. climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. south america at our operations in south america, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. the claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements. cerro verde we have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in cerro verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by smm cerro verde netherlands b.v. (21.0 percent), compa ia de minas buenaventura s.a.a. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the lima stock exchange (5.86 percent). cerro verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of arequipa, peru. the site is accessible by paved highway. a majority of cerro verde's copper cathode production is sold locally and the remaining copper cathodes and concentrate production are transported approximately 70 miles by truck and rail to the port of matarani for shipment to international markets. the cerro verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper pitch. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. cerro verde's current operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 120,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator and sx/ew leaching facilities. leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a rom leach system. this leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. the available fleet consists of forty-two 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 53 cubic meters and one hydraulic shovel with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 335,000 metric tons of material per day. 14 table of contents cerro verde's production totaled 558 million pounds of copper and 13 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 , 595 million pounds of copper and 8 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 , and 647 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 . construction activities associated with a large-scale expansion at cerro verde are in progress, which are expected to expand the concentrator facilities to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. refer to mining development projects and exploration for further discussion. cerro verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 2,753 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,568 meters above sea level. the peruvian general mining law and cerro verde's mining stability agreement grants the surface rights of mining concessions located on government land. cerro verde has a mining concession covering approximately 157,000 acres, including 14,500 acres rented from the regional government of arequipa, plus 25 acres of owned property, and 80 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area. cerro verde receives electrical power under long-term contracts with kallpa generaci n sa and empresa de generaci n el ctrica de arequipa. water for our cerro verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. cerro verde's participation in the pillones reservoir project has secured water rights from the regulated system that we believe will be sufficient to support cerro verde's current operations. an agreement has been reached with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, the local water utility company, servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar), and other local institutions to allow cerro verde to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa. cerro verde has obtained authorization to reuse an annual average of one cubic meter per second of the treated water, which would be used to supplement existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. el abra we own a 51 percent interest in el abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise corporaci n nacional del cobre de chile (codelco). el abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of calama in chile's el loa province, region ii. the site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. the el abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. the predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. there is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization as chalcocite. the oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. there are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite. the el abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized 15 table of contents rom leaching operation. the available fleet consists of forty-one 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 26 to 41 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 223,000 metric tons of material per day. el abra's copper production totaled 343 million pounds in 2013 , 338 million pounds in 2012 and 274 million pounds in 2011 . we continue to evaluate a potential large-scale milling operation at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. refer to "mining development projects and exploration" for further discussion. el abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,430 meters above sea level. el abra controls a total of approximately 151,300 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. in addition, el abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the salar de ascot n aquifer. el abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with electroandina. water for our el abra processing operations comes from pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. we believe el abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. candelaria and ojos del salado candelaria we have an 80 percent ownership interest in candelaria, with the remaining 20 percent interest owned by affiliates of sumitomo corporation. candelaria's open-pit copper mine has been in operation since 1993 and the underground mine has been in operation since 2005. the candelaria copper mining complex is located approximately 12 miles south of copiap in northern chile's atacama province, region iii. the site is accessible by two maintained dirt roads, one coming through the tierra amarilla community and the other off of route 5 of the international pan-american highway. copper concentrates are transported by truck to the punta padrones port facility located in caldera, approximately 50 miles northwest of the mine. the candelaria mine is an iron oxide, copper and gold deposit. primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite. the candelaria operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a 6,000 metric ton-per-day underground copper mine, which is mined by sublevel stoping, feeding a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator. the available fleet consists of forty-eight 225-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 28 to 43 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 250,000 metric tons of material per day. candelaria's production totaled 370 million pounds of copper and 87 thousand ounces of gold in 2013 , 271 million pounds of copper and 69 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 , and 327 million pounds of copper and 85 thousand ounces of gold in 2011 . 16 table of contents candelaria is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 832 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 80 meters below sea level. the candelaria property encompasses approximately 13,400 acres, including approximately 125 acres for the port facility in caldera. candelaria receives electrical power through long-term contracts with aes gener s.a., a local energy company. candelaria's water supply comes from a nearby wastewater treatment facility and our desalination plant and pipeline that was completed in 2013. we believe that both of these sources will supply candelaria's long term water needs. ojos del salado we have an 80 percent ownership interest in ojos del salado, with the remaining 20 percent interest owned by affiliates of sumitomo corporation. the ojos del salado operation began commercial production in 1929 and consists of two underground copper mines (santos and alcaparrosa) and a 3,800 metric ton-per-day concentrator. the operation is located approximately 10 miles east of copiap in northern chile's atacama province, region iii, and is accessible by paved highway. the ojos del salado mines are iron oxide and copper and gold deposits. primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite. the ojos del salado operation has a capacity of 3,800 metric tons per day of ore from the santos underground mine and 4,000 metric tons of ore per day from the alcaparrosa underground mine. the ore from both mines is mined by sublevel stoping since both the ore and enclosing rocks are competent. the broken ore is removed from the stopes using scoops and loaded into an available fleet of twenty-six 28-metric ton trucks, which transport the ore to the surface. the ore from the santos mine is hauled directly to the ojos del salado mill for processing, and the ore from the alcaparrosa mine is reloaded into six 54-metric ton trucks and hauled seven miles to the candelaria mill for processing. the ojos del salado concentrator has the capacity to produce over 30 million pounds of copper and 9 thousand ounces of gold per year. tailings from the ojos del salado mill are pumped to the candelaria tailings facility for final deposition. the candelaria facility has sufficient capacity for the remaining ojos del salado tailings. ojos del salado's production totaled 52 million pounds of copper and 14 thousand ounces of gold in 2013 , 53 million pounds of copper and 14 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 , and 58 million pounds of copper and 16 thousand ounces of gold in 2011 . ojos del salado is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest underground level is at an elevation of 530 meters above sea level, with the lowest underground level at 40 meters above sea level. the ojos del salado mineral rights encompass approximately 15,800 acres, which includes 6,800 acres of owned land in and around the ojos del salado underground mines and plant site. ojos del salado receives electrical power through long-term contracts with aes gener s.a. ojos del salado's water supply comes from a nearby wastewater treatment facility and our desalination plant and pipeline that was completed in 2013. we believe that both of these sources will supply ojos del salado's long term water needs. 17 table of contents indonesia ownership . pt-fi is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the republic of indonesia and incorporated in delaware. we directly own 81.28 percent of the outstanding common stock of pt-fi and indirectly own 9.36 percent through our wholly owned subsidiary, pt indocopper investama; the indonesian government owns the remaining 9.36 percent. we have established certain unincorporated joint ventures with rio tinto plc (rio tinto), under which rio tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our joint ventures with rio tinto. we also conducted exploration activities in papua, indonesia through two other entities: pt nabire bakti mining (ptnbm) and pt irja eastern minerals (eastern minerals), of which we own 100 percent. as further discussed below, we have begun the process to terminate the contracts of work (cow) for ptnbm and eastern minerals and to return the exploration areas to the indonesian government. contracts of work . pt-fi conducts its current exploration and mining operations in indonesia through a cow with the indonesian government. the cow governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 foreign capital investment law, which expresses indonesia's foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. specifically, the cow provides that the indonesian government will not nationalize or expropriate pt-fi's mining operations. any disputes regarding the provisions of the cow are subject to international arbitration; however, we have not had an arbitration during the more than 40 years we have operated in indonesia. pt-fi's original cow was entered into in 1967 and was replaced by a new cow in 1991. the initial term of the current cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. the cow allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre block a area, which is where all of pt-fi's proven and probable mineral reserves and current mining operations are located. under the cow, pt-fi also conducts exploration activities in the block b area. we expect the block b area to be reduced to approximately 413,000 acres once the department of energy and mineral resources (demr) formally accepts pt-fi's relinquishment of approximately 89,000 acres, and further relinquishments may result from the cow evaluation process discussed in note 13 . 18 table of contents pt-fi pays royalties on copper, gold and silver under its cow, and has agreed to pay additional royalties to the indonesian government that are not required under its cow. the additional royalties provide further support to the local governments and to the people of the indonesian province of papua. pt-fi's share of the combined royalties totaled $109 million in 2013 , $93 million in 2012 and $137 million in 2011 . under a joint venture agreement through ptnbm, we were allowed to conduct exploration activities under a separate cow on three parcels contiguous to pt-fi's block b and one of eastern minerals' blocks. since 2011, we have made a number of requests of the demr, including suspension of activities for the cow, while awaiting receipt of permits from the indonesian government's department of forestry that would allow us to resume exploration activities. in september 2013, we received notification from the demr advising us to lodge a completed feasibility study within 30 days and enter into the construction period within the cow timeline. however, since we had not completed our exploration program, we were unable to comply. the letter was in effect, a denial of our previously unanswered requests, resulting in a decision to terminate the cow. we have initiated actions required under the cow that will result in its formal termination. eastern minerals is allowed to conduct exploration in papua through a joint venture agreement under a separate cow. the situation with the eastern minerals cow is similar to that of ptnbm, and we expect to receive a similar response from the demr. because of this expected outcome, we have notified the demr of our intentions to terminate the cow and have initiated the formal termination process. in 2009, indonesia enacted a mining law (2009 mining law), which operates under a licensing system that is significantly less protective of licensees than the contract of work system that governs pt-fi, eastern minerals and ptnbm. the 2009 mining law and the regulations issued pursuant to that law provide that contracts of work would continue to be honored until their expiration. however, the regulations, including those issued in january 2014, attempt to apply certain provisions of the 2009 mining law and regulations to existing contracts of work and seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work. in january 2012, the president of indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team of ministers to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 mining law and to take steps to assess and determine the indonesian government's position on reduction to the size of contract concessions, increasing government revenues and domestic processing of minerals. we have been engaged in discussions with officials of the indonesian government to complete this evaluation process and obtain an extension of the pt-fi cow beyond its primary term ending in 2021 to 2041, as provided under the terms of the cow, which can only be modified by mutual agreement between pt-fi and the indonesian government. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion. in january 2014, the indonesian government published regulations providing that holders of contracts of work with existing processing facilities in indonesia may continue to export product through january 12, 2017, but established new requirements for the continued export of copper concentrates, including the imposition of a progressive export duty on copper concentrates in the amount of 25 percent in 2014, rising to 60 percent by mid-2016. pt-fi's cow authorizes it to export concentrates and specifies the taxes and other fiscal terms available to its operations. the cow states that pt-fi shall not be subject to taxes, duties or fees subsequently imposed or approved by the indonesian government except as expressly provided in the cow. additionally, pt-fi complied with the requirements of its cow for local processing by arranging for the construction and commissioning of indonesia's only copper smelter and refinery, which is owned and operated by pt smelting (refer to "smelting facilities and other mining properties"). the january 2014 regulations conflict with pt-fi's contractual rights under its cow. we are working with the indonesian government to clarify the situation and to defend pt-fi's rights under its cow. pt-fi is also seeking to obtain the required administrative permits for 2014 exports, which have been delayed as a result of the new regulations. as of february 21, 2014, pt-fi has not obtained administrative approval for 2014 exports. pt-fi has implemented near-term changes to its operations to coordinate its concentrate production with pt smelting's operating plans. since mid-january 2014, pt-fi's milling rate has averaged approximately 112,000 metric tons of ore per day, which is approximately half of normal rates. pt-fi is engaging with the government of indonesia to reach a resolution that would enable pt-fi to resume normal operations as soon as possible. in the event that pt-fi is unable to resume normal operations for an extended period, we plan to consider further actions, including constraining operating 19 table of contents costs, deferring capital expenditures and implementing workforce reductions. pt-fi may also be required to declare force majeure under its concentrate sales agreements. grasberg minerals district . pt-fi operates in the remote highlands of the sudirman mountain range in the province of papua, indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of new guinea. we and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in block a since 1967. the grasberg minerals district has three operating mines: the grasberg open pit, the deep ore zone (doz) underground mine and the big gossan underground mine. we also have several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district related to the development of the large-scale, long-lived, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the grasberg open pit. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up over several years to produce approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the transition from the grasberg open pit, currently anticipated to occur in 2017. refer to mining development projects and exploration for further discussion. pt-fi's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 928 million pounds of copper and 1.14 million ounces of gold in 2013 , 695 million pounds of copper and 862 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 and 882 million pounds of copper and 1.44 million ounces of gold in 2011 . our principal source of power for all our indonesian operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. a combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. our indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. grasberg open pit we began open-pit mining of the grasberg ore body in 1990, with mining operations expected to continue through early 2017. production in the open pit is currently at the 3,190- to 3,940- meter elevation level and totaled 46 million metric tons of ore in 2013 , which provided 71 percent of pt-fi's 2013 mill feed. the current open-pit equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. the larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 157 haul trucks with payloads ranging from 218 to 330 metric tons and 16 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 42 cubic meters, which mined an average of 381,000 metric tons of material per day during 2013 , 399,000 metric tons per day in 2012 and 486,000 metric tons per day in 2011 . grasberg crushing and conveying systems are integral to the mine and provide the capacity to transport up to 250,000 metric tons per day of grasberg ore to the mill and 150,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. the remaining overburden is moved by haul trucks. doz underground mine the doz ore body lies vertically below the now depleted intermediate ore zone. we began production from the doz ore body in 1989 using open stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the grasberg open pit. production resumed in september 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level. production from the doz mine averaged 49,400 metric tons of ore per day for the year 2013 and is expected to ramp up to the design rate of 80,000 metric tons of ore per day during 2014 pending approval of export permits as described above. production at the doz mine is expected to continue through 2019. the doz mine fleet consists of over 200 pieces of mobile heavy equipment, which is capable of mining an average of 80,000 metric tons of material per day. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 44 lhd units and 20 haul trucks. each production lhd unit typically carries approximately 11 metric tons of ore. using ore passes and chutes, the lhd units transfer ore into 55-metric ton capacity haul trucks. the trucks dump into two gyratory crushers and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. the success of the development of the doz mine, one of the world's largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of pt-fi's large-scale undeveloped underground ore bodies. 20 table of contents big gossan underground mine the big gossan mine lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. it is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. the mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. the crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. the belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. the big gossan underground mine averaged 2,100 metric tons of ore per day for the year 2013 and is expected to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by 2016. although development activities continue, production from the big gossan underground mine is currently suspended pending resolution of the export regulatory matter discussed above. the big gossan underground mine fleet consists of over 70 pieces of mobile heavy equipment, which includes 11 loaders and eight trucks used in development and production activities. description of ore bodies . our indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the grasberg monzodiorite and the ertsberg diorite. the host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the sudirman range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. the igneous-hosted ore bodies (the grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the doz block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. the sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the doz and all of the big gossan) occur as magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. the copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district's ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. these gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. the following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported ore bodies. 21 table of contents the following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported indonesia ore bodies and their locations. africa tfm is organized under the laws of the drc. we own an effective 56 percent interest in tfm, with the remaining ownership interests held by lundin mining corporation (lundin) (an effective 24 percent interest) and la g n rale des carri res et des mines (g camines), which is wholly owned by the drc government (a 20 percent non-dilutable interest). tfm is entitled to mine in the drc under an amended and restated mining convention (armc) with the drc government. the original mining convention was entered into in 1996 and was replaced with the armc in 2005, which was further amended in 2010 (approved in 2011). the current armc will remain in effect for as long as the tenke concessions are exploitable. tfm pays a royalty of two percent of net revenues under the armc, which totaled $29 million in 2013 , $25 million in 2012 and $24 million in 2011 . 22 table of contents the tenke minerals district is located in the katanga province of the drc approximately 110 miles northwest of lubumbashi and is accessible by paved roads and by rail. the deposits are sediment-hosted copper and cobalt deposits with oxide, mixed oxide-sulfide and sulfide mineralization. the dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite. important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite. initial copper production commenced at the tenke minerals district in march 2009. tfm completed its second phase expansion project in early 2013, which included optimizing the current plant and increasing mine, mill and processing capacity. the expanded mill facility throughput rates averaged 14,900 metric tons of ore per day during 2013, compared with original design capacity of 14,000 metric tons of ore per day, enabling an increase in tenke's copper production to over 430 million pounds per year. the addition of a second sulphuric acid plant is expected to be completed in 2016. we continue to engage in exploration activities and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective tenke minerals district. these analyses are being incorporated into future plans for potential expansions of production capacity. future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including economic and market conditions and the business and investment climate in the drc. the current equipment fleet includes one 10-cubic meter mass excavator, three 17-cubic meter mass excavators, three 12-cubic meter front-end loaders, ten 7-cubic meter front-end loaders, thirty-two 91-metric ton haul trucks and eleven 45-metric ton haul trucks. copper and cobalt are recovered through an agitation-leach plant. production from the tenke minerals district totaled 462 million pounds of copper and 28 million pounds of cobalt in 2013 , 348 million pounds of copper and 26 million pounds of cobalt in 2012 and 281 million pounds of copper and 25 million pounds of cobalt in 2011 . the tenke minerals district is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated by its higher altitudes. weather in this region is characterized by a dry season and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,518 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,110 meters above sea level. the tenke deposits are covered by six exploitation permits totaling approximately 394,450 acres. tfm has long-term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with la soci t nationale d'electricit , the state-owned electric utility company serving the region. the results of a recent water exploration program, as well as the regional geological and hydro-geological conditions, indicate that adequate water is available during the expected life of the operation. smelting facilities and other mining properties atlantic copper . our wholly owned atlantic copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the huelva, spain, port authorities, which are scheduled to expire in 2027. the design capacity of the smelter is approximately 300,000 metric tons of copper per year and the refinery currently has a capacity of 285,000 metric tons of copper per year. during 2013 , atlantic copper treated approximately 869,400 million metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 224,300 metric tons of copper anodes from its smelter and 226,000 metric tons of copper cathodes from its refinery. following is a summary of atlantic copper's concentrate purchases from our copper mining operations and third parties for the last three years: 2013 2012 2011 north america copper mines 13 % 16 % 2 % south america mining 32 % 31 % 30 % indonesia mining 16 % 10 % 17 % third parties 39 % 43 % 51 % 100 % 100 % 100 % during 2013, atlantic copper successfully completed a scheduled 68-day major maintenance turnaround. atlantic copper's major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. the next short-term maintenance turnaround is scheduled for the second half of 2015. 23 table of contents pt smelting . pt-fi's cow required us to construct or cause to be constructed a smelter in indonesia if we and the indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. in 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of pt smelting, an indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia. pt smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. pt-fi, mitsubishi materials corporation, mitsubishi corporation unimetals ltd. and jx nippon mining &amp; metals corporation own 25 percent, 60.5 percent, 9.5 percent and 5 percent, respectively, of the outstanding pt smelting common stock. pt-fi's contract with pt smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (subject to a minimum or maximum rate) necessary for pt smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. pt-fi also sells copper concentrate to pt smelting (at market rates) for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. during 2013 , pt smelting treated 967,800 metric tons of concentrate and produced 217,700 metric tons of copper anodes from its smelter and 214,300 metric tons of copper cathodes from its refinery. pt smelting's maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. pt smelting completed an 18-day maintenance turnaround during first-quarter 2014, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2016. miami smelter . we own and operate a smelter at our miami, arizona, mining operation. the smelter has been operating for approximately 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with air quality requirements. as a result of new air quality standards for sulfur dioxide emissions, the miami smelter is required to install pollution control equipment as part of an expansion that will allow the smelter to operate and comply with the new standard (refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion). the miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our arizona copper mines. concentrate processed through the smelter totaled approximately 629,000 metric tons in 2013 . in addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrates, the miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our north america leaching operations. major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) typically occur approximately every 14 months for the miami smelter, with shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. rod &amp; refining operations . our rod &amp; refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in north america, including a refinery in el paso, texas; rod mills in el paso, texas, norwich, connecticut, and miami, arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in bayway, new jersey. we refine our copper anode production from our miami smelter at our el paso refinery. the el paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at miami. our el paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. molybdenum conversion facilities . we process molybdenum concentrates at our conversion plants in the u.s. and europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates and molybdenum disulfide. we operate molybdenum roasters in sierrita, arizona; fort madison, iowa; and rotterdam, the netherlands, and we operate a molybdenum pressure leach plant in bagdad, arizona. we also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in stowmarket, united kingdom. freeport cobalt . on march 29, 2013, we, through a newly formed consolidated joint venture, completed the acquisition of a cobalt chemical refinery in kokkola, finland, and the related sales and marketing business. the acquisition provides direct end-market access for the cobalt hydroxide production at the tenke minerals district. the joint venture operates under the name freeport cobalt, and we are the operator with an effective 56 percent ownership interest. the remaining effective ownership interest is held by our partners in tfm, including 24 percent by lundin and 20 percent by g camines. the kokkola refinery has an annual refining capacity of approximately 12,000 metric tons of cobalt, sufficient to refine the majority of the cobalt we produce in the tenke minerals district. 24 table of contents other north america copper mines . in addition to our operating mines, we have four non-operating copper mines in north america ajo, bisbee and tohono in arizona, and cobre in new mexico that have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require new or updated environmental studies, new permits, and additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status. in december 2009, we purchased the twin buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994 and is adjacent to our sierrita mine in arizona. the purchase provides significant synergies in the sierrita minerals district, including the potential for expanded mining activities and access to material that can be used for sierrita tailings and stockpile reclamation purposes. we have completed drilling on the property and metallurgical studies to support a future feasibility study. mining development projects and exploration we have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. our near-term major development projects, which will require substantial additional capital investment, are presented below. also refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of these projects, our other development projects and exploration activities. considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. we continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our mineral reserves. morenci . we are expanding mining and milling capacity at morenci to process additional sulfide ores identified through exploratory drilling. the project is targeting incremental annual production of approximately 225 million pounds of copper beginning in 2014 (an approximate 40 percent increase from 2013) through an increase in milling rates from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day. at full rates, morenci's copper production is expected to approach 1 billion pounds in 2015 compared with 564 million pounds in 2013. at december 31, 2013, construction is more than 60 percent complete and the project is on track for first copper production in the first half of 2014. cerro verde . construction activities associated with a large-scale expansion at cerro verde are in progress. at december 31, 2013, engineering was more than 90 percent complete and construction progress is advancing on schedule. the project is expected to expand the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. in addition, construction activities are progressing on a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa, which will be used to supplement existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion. el abra . we continue to evaluate a potential large-scale milling operation at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. exploration results in recent years at el abra indicate a significant sulfide resource, which could potentially support a major mill project. grasberg . we have several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district related to the development of large-scale, long-lived, high-grade underground ore bodies. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up over several years to produce approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the transition from the grasberg open pit, currently anticipated to occur in 2017. development of the grasberg block cave and deep mill level zone (dmlz) mines is advancing to enable dmlz to commence production in 2015 and the grasberg block cave mine to commence production in 2017. in addition to the near-term development projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district, we also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the grasberg minerals district for the kucing liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. we expect to mine the kucing liar ore body using the block-cave method; aggregate capital cost estimates for development of the kucing liar ore body are projected to approximate $2 billion (which are expected to be made between 2019 and 2032). additionally, our current mine development plans include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once the grasberg open-pit operations cease (we expect substantially all of these expenditures to be m ade between 2016 and 2034). 25 table of contents sources and availability of energy, natural resources and raw materials our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented approximately 20 percent of our 2013 consolidated copper production costs and included purchases of approximately 260 million gallons of diesel fuel; 7,200 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america, south america and africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 705 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 mmbtu (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. for 2014 , we estimate energy will approximate 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. although we believe our mining operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. for a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. sulphuric acid is used in the sx/ew process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulphur burners at the safford and tenke mines. sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties. community and human rights we have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects basic human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. we continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs basic education programs public health programs, including malaria control and hiv testing agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs cultural promotion and preservation programs clean water and sanitation projects community infrastructure development charitable donations in december 2000, we endorsed the joint u.s. state department-british foreign office voluntary principles on human rights and security (voluntary principles). we participated in developing these voluntary principles with other major natural resources companies and international human rights organizations and they are incorporated into our human rights policy and site level projects. we also are currently integrating the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights into our human rights program by conducting a corporate level human rights impact assessment. the results of this assessment will be used to evaluate and help direct our human rights program going forward, including a review of our human rights policy. we also participate in a multi-industry human rights working group to help us learn from peer companies and determine the best way to integrate human rights due diligence into our business practices and to support our voluntary principles program. we believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. as part of our ongoing, annual commitment to sustainable community development, we have made significant investments in social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations. over the last three years, these investments have averaged $179 million per year. nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. south america . cerro verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, cerro verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve arequipa. in addition, an agreement was reached with the peruvian government for development of a water storage and distribution network, which was 26 table of contents financed by the cerro verde civil association (the association). the association manages contributions made by cerro verde for projects that focus on education, training, health, cultural preservation and basic infrastructure. cerro verde has also reached agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, sedapar and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa (refer to md&amp;a for further discussion). treating this water will improve the rio chili's water quality, enhance agriculture products grown in the area and reduce waterborne illnesses. indonesia . in 1996, pt-fi established the freeport partnership fund for community development (the partnership fund), through which pt-fi has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development of the area. pt-fi has committed through 2016 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the partnership fund. our share of contributions to the partnership fund totaled $41 million in 2013 , $39 million in 2012 and $50 million in 2011 . the amungme and kamoro community development organization ( lembaga pengembangan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro or lpmak) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the partnership fund. lpmak is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local amungme and kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of pt-fi on each board. the amungme and kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. security matters . consistent with our cow in indonesia and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, pt-fi maintains its own internal security department, which is unarmed and performs functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department has received human rights training and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human rights policy. pt-fi's share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $51 million for 2013 , $52 million for 2012 and $37 million for 2011 . pt-fi, and all businesses and residents of indonesia, rely on the indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesian government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. this designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. the indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. from the outset of pt-fi's operations, the indonesian government has looked to pt-fi to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in papua. pt-fi's financial support for the indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol pt-fi's roads and secure its operating area. in addition, the provision of such support is consistent with pt-fi's obligations under the cow, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights. pt-fi's share of support costs for the government-provided security was $25 million in 2013 , $22 million in 2012 and $14 million in 2011 . this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion of security risks in indonesia. africa . tfm has committed to assist the communities living within its concession in the katanga province of the drc. initiatives include an integrated malaria control program, construction, renovation and building of local health facilities, construction and renovation of local schools, installation of over 90 clean water wells in rural villages as well as construction of urban water distribution systems, and economic development programs supporting 27 table of contents development and training of local entrepreneurs, contractors and farmers. we have also made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a portion of a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems. through the amended and restated mining convention, tfm has also committed to contribute 0.3 percent of net sales revenue from production to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services including health, education and agriculture. the tfm social community fund is managed by a board of directors comprised of two local community representatives, one representative nominated by the provincial governor and four tfm representatives. a community stakeholder forum comprised of 40 community representatives provides for increased community participation and input regarding project priorities, community needs, and transparency of fund management. the tfm social community fund contributions totaled $4 million in each of the years 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . security matters . tfm maintains an unarmed internal security department. the national government also has assigned mines police to the tfm concession area. the mines police are a division of the congolese national police and are responsible for maintaining security in mining concessions throughout the drc. tfm provides food, housing, monetary allowances and logistical support as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession area. the total cost to tfm for this support, including in-kind support, totaled less than $1 million in each of the years 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . tfm also participates in monthly security coordination meetings with host country security personnel, other mining companies, and representatives from the united nations to discuss security issues and concerns. as an outcome of the coordination meetings, tfm has partnered with monusco (united nations stabilization mission in the drc) to conduct human rights training in the tfm concession for host government security personnel, local representatives and tfm security employees. 28 table of contents mining production data years ended december 31, (fcx's net interest in %) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 copper (millions of recoverable pounds) north america morenci (85%) a 564 537 522 437 428 bagdad (100%) 216 197 194 203 225 safford (100%) 146 175 151 143 184 sierrita (100%) 171 157 177 147 170 miami (100%) 61 66 66 18 16 chino (100%) 171 144 69 34 36 tyrone (100%) 96 83 76 82 86 other (100%) 6 4 3 3 2 total north america 1,431 1,363 1,258 1,067 1,147 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 558 595 647 668 662 el abra (51%) 343 338 274 320 358 candelaria/ojos del salado (80%) 422 324 385 366 370 total south america 1,323 1,257 1,306 1,354 1,390 indonesia grasberg (90.64%) b 915 695 846 1,222 1,412 africa tenke fungurume (56%) c 462 348 281 265 154 consolidated 4,131 3,663 3,691 3,908 4,103 less noncontrolling interests 801 723 710 766 754 net 3,330 2,940 2,981 3,142 3,349 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) north america (100%) a 7 13 10 7 4 south america (80%) 101 83 101 93 92 indonesia (90.64%) b 1,142 862 1,272 1,786 2,568 consolidated 1,250 958 1,383 1,886 2,664 less noncontrolling interests 127 98 139 186 258 net 1,123 860 1,244 1,700 2,406 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) henderson (100%) 30 34 38 40 27 climax (100%) d 19 7 north america copper mines (100%) a 32 36 35 25 25 cerro verde (53.56%) 13 8 10 7 2 consolidated 94 85 83 72 54 less noncontrolling interest 6 4 5 3 1 net 88 81 78 69 53 cobalt (millions of contained pounds) consolidated - tenke fungurume (56%) c 28 26 25 20 less noncontrolling interests 12 11 11 8 net 16 15 14 12 a. amounts are net of morenci's 15 percent joint venture partner interest. b. amounts are net of grasberg's joint venture partner's interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement. c. initial copper production commenced at the tenke mines in march 2009. effective march 26, 2012, fcx's effective ownership interest in tfm was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. d. the climax molybdenum mine began commercial operations in may 2012. 29 table of contents mining sales data years ended december 31, (fcx's net interest in %) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 copper (millions of recoverable pounds) north america morenci (85%) a 561 532 521 434 459 bagdad (100%) 212 196 201 206 225 safford (100%) 151 175 147 155 176 sierrita (100%) 170 162 175 152 172 miami (100%) 60 68 59 17 16 chino (100%) 168 132 62 35 52 tyrone (100%) 94 82 79 83 85 other (100%) 6 4 3 3 2 total north america 1,422 1,351 1,247 1,085 1,187 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 560 589 657 654 667 el abra (51%) 341 338 276 315 361 candelaria/ojos del salado (80%) 424 318 389 366 366 total south america 1,325 1,245 1,322 1,335 1,394 indonesia grasberg (90.64%) b 885 716 846 1,214 1,400 africa tenke fungurume (56%) c 454 336 283 262 130 consolidated sales from mines 4,086 3,648 3,698 3,896 4,111 less noncontrolling interests 795 717 717 756 746 net 3,291 2,931 2,981 3,140 3,365 consolidated sales from mines 4,086 3,648 3,698 3,896 4,111 purchased copper 223 125 223 182 166 total copper sales, including purchases 4,309 3,773 3,921 4,078 4,277 average realized price per pound $ 3.30 $ 3.60 $ 3.86 $ 3.59 $ 2.60 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) north america (100%) a 6 13 7 5 6 south america (80%) 102 82 101 93 90 indonesia (90.64%) b 1,096 915 1,270 1,765 2,543 consolidated sales from mines 1,204 1,010 1,378 1,863 2,639 less noncontrolling interests 123 102 139 184 256 net 1,081 908 1,239 1,679 2,383 average realized price per ounce $ 1,315 $ 1,665 $ 1,583 $ 1,271 $ 993 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) consolidated sales from mines 93 83 79 67 58 less noncontrolling interests 5 4 4 3 1 net 88 79 75 64 57 average realized price per pound $ 11.85 $ 14.26 $ 16.98 $ 16.47 $ 12.36 cobalt (millions of contained pounds) consolidated - tenke fungurume (56%) c 25 25 25 20 less noncontrolling interests 11 11 10 8 net 14 14 15 12 average realized price per pound $ 8.02 $ 7.83 $ 9.99 $ 10.95 $ a. amounts are net of morenci's joint venture partner's 15 percent interest. b. amounts are net of grasberg's joint venture partner's interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement. c. initial copper production commenced at the tenke mines in march 2009. effective march 26, 2012, fcx's effective ownership interest in tfm was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. 30 table of contents mineral reserves recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves from our mining operations summarized below and detailed on the following pages have been calculated as of december 31, 2013 , in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange act of 1934. proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. proven and probable mineral reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. the term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the term proven reserves means mineral reserves for which (1) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (2) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (3) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. the term probable reserves means mineral reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. our estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees; a majority of these estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2013 , were determined using long-term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper (consistent with the long-term average copper price used since december 31, 2010), $1,000 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. for the three-year period ended december 31, 2013 , lme spot copper prices averaged $3.64 per pound, london pm gold prices averaged $1,550 per ounce, and the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $12.85 per pound. the recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. recoverable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2013 copper a (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) silver b (million ounces) cobalt b (billion pounds) north america 36.2 0.4 2.55 87.5 south america 37.0 1.1 0.71 107.5 indonesia 30.0 29.8 113.5 africa 8.0 0.87 consolidated basis c 111.2 31.3 3.26 308.5 0.87 net equity interest d 88.6 28.3 2.93 252.9 0.48 a. recoverable copper reserves include 3.3 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 1.4 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (refer to mill and leach stockpiles for further discussion). b. determined using long-term average prices of $15 per ounce for silver and $10 per pound for cobalt. c. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. d. net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 31 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2013 proven reserves probable reserves average ore grade average ore grade processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt million copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % metric tons % g/t % g/t % north america morenci mill 677 0.49 0.02 8 0.47 0.02 crushed leach 407 0.51 6 0.52 rom leach 2,610 0.18 71 0.15 bagdad mill 1,023 0.34 a 0.02 1.61 152 0.32 a 0.02 1.61 rom leach 175 0.15 99 0.17 safford crushed leach 97 0.45 52 0.45 sierrita mill 2,273 0.24 a 0.03 1.42 239 0.20 a 0.02 1.21 rom leach 12 0.19 10 0.17 miami rom leach 12 0.44 3 0.38 chino mill 83 0.62 0.04 0.01 0.53 62 0.59 0.04 0.01 0.50 rom leach 173 0.31 58 0.27 tyrone rom leach 68 0.34 1 0.25 henderson mill 103 0.17 2 0.16 climax mill 166 0.17 23 0.10 cobre b rom leach 71 0.40 2 0.29 7,950 788 south america cerro verde mill 1,123 0.39 0.02 1.60 2,757 0.37 0.02 1.52 crushed leach 37 0.50 57 0.41 rom leach 16 0.21 57 0.21 el abra crushed leach 365 0.50 91 0.47 rom leach 91 0.29 29 0.25 candelaria mill 269 0.58 0.13 2.12 12 0.66 0.17 2.65 ojos del salado mill 6 1.05 0.24 4.04 2 0.88 0.20 3.50 1,907 3,005 indonesia grasberg open pit mill 94 1.05 1.34 2.71 112 0.87 0.86 2.09 deep ore zone mill 48 0.57 0.73 2.33 104 0.55 0.73 2.21 big gossan mill 15 2.38 1.05 15.04 39 2.16 0.95 12.89 grasberg block cave b mill 387 1.20 0.99 3.95 613 0.90 0.64 3.26 kucing liar b mill 154 1.31 1.11 7.48 266 1.21 1.04 6.13 deep mill level zone b mill 72 0.91 0.75 4.45 454 0.82 0.69 4.10 770 1,588 africa tenke fungurume agitation leach 52 3.66 0.39 61 3.07 0.33 total fcx - 100% basis 10,679 5,442 a. grade not shown because of rounding. b. undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. the reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below: g/t grams per metric ton moly molybdenum rom run of mine 32 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2013 (continued) proven and probable average ore grade recoveries a processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % % % north america morenci mill 685 0.49 0.02 79.5 50.5 crushed leach 413 0.51 78.0 rom leach 2,681 0.18 43.5 bagdad mill 1,175 0.34 b 0.02 1.61 85.8 59.1 70.8 49.3 rom leach 274 0.16 23.4 safford crushed leach 149 0.45 65.2 sierrita mill 2,512 0.23 b 0.03 1.40 83.9 59.9 76.6 49.3 rom leach 22 0.18 53.1 miami rom leach 15 0.43 56.0 chino mill 145 0.61 0.04 0.01 0.52 79.5 77.9 44.0 78.5 rom leach 231 0.30 39.5 tyrone rom leach 69 0.34 61.3 henderson mill 105 0.17 84.2 climax mill 189 0.16 89.9 cobre c rom leach 73 0.39 50.7 8,738 south america cerro verde mill 3,880 0.37 0.02 1.55 86.3 53.1 44.7 crushed leach 94 0.44 79.5 rom leach 73 0.21 49.8 el abra crushed leach 456 0.50 57.5 rom leach 120 0.28 30.7 candelaria mill 281 0.58 0.14 2.14 89.7 71.9 76.3 ojos del salado mill 8 1.00 0.23 3.87 90.2 71.9 76.3 4,912 indonesia grasberg open pit mill 206 0.95 1.08 2.37 84.1 81.1 43.7 deep ore zone mill 152 0.56 0.73 2.25 86.7 77.5 66.2 big gossan mill 54 2.22 0.97 13.49 91.6 67.1 63.8 grasberg block cave c mill 1,000 1.02 0.78 3.53 84.2 64.8 57.1 kucing liar c mill 420 1.24 1.07 6.63 84.9 45.2 38.7 deep mill level zone c mill 526 0.83 0.70 4.15 86.7 78.8 64.6 2,358 africa tenke fungurume agitation leach 113 3.34 0.36 86.4 75.6 total fcx - 100% basis 16,121 a. recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. grade not shown because of rounding. c. undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. 33 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2013 (continued) recoverable reserves copper gold moly silver cobalt fcx's processing billion million billion million billion interest method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. lbs. north america morenci 85% mill 5.9 0.15 crushed leach 3.6 rom leach 4.5 bagdad 100% mill 7.6 0.1 0.39 30.0 rom leach 0.2 safford 100% crushed leach 1.0 sierrita 100% mill 10.8 0.1 1.08 55.6 rom leach a miami 100% rom leach 0.1 chino 100% mill 1.5 0.2 0.01 1.9 rom leach 0.6 tyrone 100% rom leach 0.3 henderson 100% mill 0.33 climax 100% mill 0.60 cobre 100% rom leach 0.3 36.4 0.4 2.56 87.5 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 1.9 0.01 100% operations 38.3 0.4 2.57 87.5 consolidated c 36.2 0.4 2.55 87.5 net equity interest d 36.2 0.4 2.55 87.5 south america cerro verde 53.56% mill 27.5 0.69 86.2 crushed leach 0.7 rom leach 0.2 el abra 51% crushed leach 2.9 rom leach 0.2 candelaria 80% mill 3.3 0.9 14.8 ojos del salado 80% mill 0.1 a 0.7 34.9 0.9 0.69 101.7 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 2.1 0.2 0.02 5.8 100% operations 37.0 1.1 0.71 107.5 consolidated c 37.0 1.1 0.71 107.5 net equity interest d 20.7 0.9 0.38 62.5 indonesia grasberg open pit e mill 3.6 5.8 6.9 deep ore zone e mill 1.6 2.8 7.3 big gossan e mill 2.5 1.1 15.0 grasberg block cave e mill 18.9 16.1 64.8 kucing liar e mill 9.8 6.5 34.6 deep mill level zone e mill 8.3 9.3 45.3 100% operations 44.7 41.6 173.9 consolidated c 30.0 29.8 113.5 net equity interest d 27.2 27.0 102.9 africa tenke fungurume 56% agitation leach 7.2 0.68 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 0.8 0.19 100% operations 8.0 0.87 consolidated c 8.0 0.87 net equity interest d 4.5 0.48 total fcx 100% basis 128.0 43.1 3.28 368.9 0.87 total fcx consolidated basis c 111.2 31.3 3.26 308.5 0.87 total fcx net equity interest d 88.6 28.3 2.93 252.9 0.48 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. refer to "mill and leach stockpiles" for additional information. c. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. d. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. e. our joint venture agreement with rio tinto provides that pt-fi will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of december 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow. 34 table of contents in defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. the objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. we use a "break-even cutoff grade" to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. the break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. we value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. the calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. the table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of december 31, 2013 : copper equivalent cutoff grade (percent) molybdenum cutoff grade (percent) mill crushed or agitation leach rom leach mill north america morenci 0.25 0.20 0.03 bagdad 0.20 0.09 safford 0.13 sierrita 0.18 0.07 miami 0.05 chino 0.20 0.08 tyrone 0.05 henderson 0.12 climax 0.06 cobre 0.17 south america cerro verde 0.17 0.19 0.14 el abra 0.11 0.07 candelaria 0.24 ojos del salado 0.81 indonesia grasberg open pit 0.25 deep ore zone 0.77 big gossan 1.88 grasberg block cave 0.71 kucing liar 0.83 deep mill level zone 0.72 africa tenke fungurume 1.33 35 table of contents drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. the following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: average drill hole spacing (in meters) proven probable mining unit mill leach mill leach north america morenci open pit 86 86 122 122 bagdad open pit 86 86 122 122 safford open pit 86 122 sierrita open pit 73 61 104 91 miami open pit 61 91 chino open pit 43 86 86 122 tyrone open pit 86 86 henderson block cave 38 85 climax open pit 61 91 cobre open pit 61 91 south america cerro verde open pit 50 50 100 100 el abra open pit 75 120 candelaria open pit 35 70 ojos del salado sublevel stoping 25 50 indonesia grasberg open pit 32 86 deep ore zone block cave 23 57 big gossan open stope 14 42 grasberg block cave 31 79 kucing liar block cave 39 99 deep mill level zone block cave 21 79 africa tenke fungurume open pit 50 100 36 table of contents production sequencing the following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body. the chart also shows the term of pt-fi's cow. production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. the ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. in addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below. mill and leach stockpiles mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from the ore body and are available for copper recovery. for mill stockpiles, recovery is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. for leach stockpiles, recovery is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. 37 table of contents expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. total copper recovery in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including processing methodology, processing variables, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 80 percent of total copper recovery may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored continuously, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of december 31, 2013 : recoverable million average recovery copper metric tons ore grade (%) rate (%) (billion pounds) mill stockpiles cerro verde 112 0.39 82.1 0.8 candelaria 92 0.36 83.5 0.6 204 1.4 leach stockpiles morenci 5,465 0.24 2.0 0.6 bagdad 488 0.26 2.2 0.1 safford 161 0.43 15.9 0.2 sierrita 650 0.15 11.8 0.2 miami 483 0.39 2.7 0.1 chino 1,639 0.26 4.9 0.5 tyrone 1,078 0.28 2.6 0.2 cerro verde 452 0.52 3.2 0.2 el abra 529 0.42 10.3 0.5 tenke fungurume 31 1.25 91.9 0.8 10,976 3.4 total fcx - 100% basis 4.8 total fcx - consolidated basis a 4.7 total fcx - net equity interest b 3.5 a. consolidated represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint venture partner's interest in the morenci mine in north america. b. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. mineralized material we hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. however, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $2.20 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold and $12 per pound for molybdenum. 38 table of contents mineralized material estimated at december 31, 2013 milling material leaching material total mineralized material million million million fcx's metric copper gold moly silver metric copper metric interest tons % g/t % g/t tons % tons north america morenci 85% 1,328 0.26 0.02 1,350 0.20 2,678 bagdad 100% 437 0.28 a 0.02 1.3 7 0.12 444 safford 100% 431 0.53 0.10 a 2.0 161 0.24 592 sierrita 100% 1,509 0.19 a 0.02 1.1 16 0.16 1,525 chino 100% 110 0.42 0.01 28 0.27 138 tyrone 100% 52 0.34 52 henderson 100% 158 0.15 158 climax 100% 421 0.15 421 cobre 100% 39 0.54 9 0.26 48 ajo 100% 817 0.33 0.07 0.01 0.9 817 cochise/bisbee 100% 258 0.45 258 lone star 100% 656 0.44 656 sanchez 100% 160 0.29 160 tohono 100% 203 0.70 248 0.65 451 twin buttes 100% 445 0.40 0.03 2.3 53 0.21 498 christmas 100% 224 0.38 0.05 a 1.0 224 south america cerro verde 53.56% 319 0.35 0.01 1.5 7 0.39 326 el abra 51% 1,842 0.45 0.02 0.01 1.4 192 0.28 2,034 candelaria 80% 46 0.60 0.14 1.8 46 indonesia grasberg minerals district 54.38% b 2,666 0.61 0.54 3.4 2,666 africa tenke fungurume c 56% 65 3.90 28 2.81 93 kisanfu c 95% 49 2.48 47 3.16 96 total fcx - 100% basis 11,109 3,272 14,381 total fcx - consolidated basis d 9,844 3,069 12,913 total fcx - net equity interest e 8,603 2,957 11,560 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. fcx's interest in the grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership. c. stated tonnage also includes cobalt at tenke fungurume (0.31 percent) and kisanfu (1.15 percent). d. consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for our joint venture partners' interest in the morenci mine and the grasberg minerals district. e. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 39 table of contents oil and gas operations as further discussed in note 2, during second-quarter 2013, we acquired oil and gas operations by completing the acquisitions of pxp and mmr. our oil and gas operations include oil production facilities and growth potential in the deepwater gom, oil production from the onshore eagle ford shale play in texas, oil production facilities onshore and offshore california, onshore natural gas resources in the haynesville shale play in louisiana, natural gas production from the madden area in central wyoming, and an industry-leading position in the emerging shallow-water inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend on the shelf of the gom and onshore in south louisiana. refer to "general" for a map showing the locations of our oil and gas operations. acreage at december 31, 2013, we owned interests in approximately 45 thousand oil and gas leases covering 5.1 million gross acres (2.8 million acres net to our interest). the following table summarizes, by geographic area, the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage in which we held interests at december 31, 2013: developed undeveloped gross acres net acres gross acres net acres louisiana: onshore 377,767 71,152 84,611 41,557 offshore 469,412 267,374 967,868 536,721 texas 70,812 40,953 31,361 16,735 california: onshore 61,287 60,721 63,408 39,980 offshore 43,335 39,062 wyoming 83,252 16,286 138,524 114,737 nevada 246,073 246,073 florida 160 24 114,600 14,982 utah 86,862 71,880 other 3,124 529 150,469 107,715 total u.s. 1,109,149 496,101 1,883,776 1,190,380 morocco 2,154,014 1,120,087 1,109,149 496,101 4,037,790 2,310,467 approximately 41 percent of our total u.s. net undeveloped acres are covered by leases that expire from 2014 to 2016; however, a significant portion of this acreage is expected to be retained by drilling operations or other means. the lease for our morocco acreage expires in 2016; however, we have the ability to extend the lease through 2019. oil and gas properties our oil and gas properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, including other mineral encumbrances and restrictions. we do not believe that any of these burdens materially interfere with our use of the properties in the operation of our business. we believe that we have satisfactory title to or rights in all of our producing properties. as is customary in the oil and gas industry, we make minimal investigation of title at the time we acquire undeveloped properties. we make title investigations and receive title opinions of local counsel only before we commence drilling operations. we believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our other assets. although title to our properties is subject to encumbrances in certain cases, we believe that none of these burdens will materially detract from the value of our properties or from our interest therein or will materially interfere with our use in the operation of our business. following are descriptions of our primary u.s. oil and gas properties: gulf of mexico . deepwater gom. our deepwater gom portfolio includes a 100 percent working interest in the holstein, horn mountain, marlin, dorado and king fields, a 31 percent working interest in the ram powell field and a 33.3 percent working interest in the diana and hoover fields. 40 table of contents the following table summarizes our deepwater gom platforms at december 31, 2013: capacity per day platform field location type of platform production commenced water depth (feet) oil (bbls) gas (mcf) holstein a green canyon blocks 644, 645 and 688 truss spar 2004 4,300 113,500 142,300 horn mountain a mississippi canyon blocks 126 and 127 truss spar 2002 5,400 75,000 72,000 marlin hub a several b tension leg 2000 3,200 60,000 235,000 ram powell viosca knoll blocks 911 to 913 and 955 to 957 tension leg 1997 3,200 70,000 310,000 hoover several c deep draft caisson vessel 2000 4,800 100,000 325,000 a. we are the operator of the holstein, horn mountain and marlin hub platforms. b. the marlin hub is the production facility for three fields: the marlin field (s/2 viosca knoll block 871 and n/2 viosca knoll block 915), the dorado field (s/2 viosca knoll block 915) and the king field (mississippi canyon blocks 84, 85, 128 and 129). the marlin field currently produces via a combination of platform and subsea tie-back wells while the dorado and king fields currently produce exclusively via subsea wells and tie-back infrastructure. c. the hoover platform is a deep draft caisson vessel located in alaminos canyon block 25. the diana field is located in east breaks blocks 945, 946 and 989, and the hoover field is located in alaminos canyon blocks 25 and 26. additionally, our subsidiary plains offshore operations inc. (plains offshore), holds a 23.33 percent working interest in the lucius oil field and a 50 percent working interest in the phobos discovery. refer to note 2 for further discussion of plains offshore. our deepwater gom exploration portfolio includes interests in 147 blocks containing 60 prospects in the pliocene, miocene and lower tertiary reservoirs. gom shelf. our gom shelf properties are primarily located on the outer continental shelf in the shallow waters (less than 500 feet of water) of the gom and onshore in the gulf coast area of louisiana, with drilling depths not exceeding 15,000 feet considered to be traditional shelf prospects. inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous. prospects with drilling depths below the salt weld (generally at depths exceeding 25,000 feet) are considered inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous prospects. refer to "exploration and development activities" for further discussion. eagle ford . the eagle ford shale play is upper cretaceous in age, and typical well depths range from 9,500 feet to 11,500 feet. the area is currently being developed with horizontal wells with lateral lengths ranging from 3,500 feet to 6,000 feet at a measured total depth from 14,500 to 17,500 feet. we own approximately 392 square miles of 3-d seismic data on our acreage. based on the 60 to 130 acre well spacing, we anticipate over 600 potential well locations, with approximately 250 locations remaining. california . onshore california. we hold a 100 percent working interest in the majority of our los angeles basin properties in the inglewood, las cienegas, montebello, packard and san vicente fields, and a 100 percent working interest in the majority of our san joaquin basin properties in the cymric, midway sunset and south belridge fields. the los angeles basin properties are characterized by light crude oil (21 to 32 degree american petroleum institute (api) gravity), have well depths ranging from 2,000 feet to over 10,000 feet and include both primary production and mature wells using waterflood recovery methods (whereby water is injected into the reservoir formation to displace residual oil), where producing wells have a high ratio of water produced compared to total liquids produced (high water cuts). the san joaquin basin properties are long-lived fields that have heavier oil (12 to 16 degree api gravity) and shallow wells (generally less than 2,000 feet) that require enhanced oil recovery techniques, including steam injection, and produce with high water cuts. 41 table of contents we also hold a 100 percent working interest (94 percent net revenue interest) in the arroyo grande field located in san luis obispo county, which is a long-lived field that has heavier oil (12 to 16 degree api gravity) and well depths averaging 1,700 feet requiring continuous steam injection. offshore california. all of our offshore california properties are located in federal waters approximately five to seven miles offshore in the santa maria basin. we hold a 69.3 percent working interest (58 perecent net revenue interest) in the point arguello unit, composed of the hidalgo, hermosa and harvest platforms, and the various partnerships owning the related transportation, processing and marketing infrastructure. we also hold a 100 percent working interest (83 percent net revenue interest) in the point pedernales field, which includes the irene platform, that is utilized to access the federal outer continental shelf monterey reservoir by extended reach directional wells and support facilities which lie within the onshore lompoc field. haynesville . the haynesville shale play is characterized by gas production from the jurassic aged haynesville shale formation in louisiana, and typical well depth is 10,500 feet. the area has historically been developed with approximately 4,000 foot horizontal wells at a measured total depth of 16,000 feet. madden . we own an approximate 14 percent working interest in the madden deep unit and lost cabin gas plant located in central wyoming. the madden deep unit is a federal unit operated by a third party and consists of acreage in the wind river basin. the madden area is characterized by gas production from multiple stratigraphic horizons of the lower fort union, lance, mesaverde and cody sands and the madison dolomite. production from the madden deep unit is typically found at depths ranging from 5,500 to 25,000 feet. exploration and development activities our oil and gas business has significant proved, probable and possible reserves with financially attractive organic growth opportunities. the portfolio includes a broad range of development opportunities and high-potential exploration prospects. substantial capital expenditures will continue to be required for our oil and gas exploration and development activities, which are expected to be funded by oil and gas operating cash flows and proceeds from asset sales. also refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of our oil and gas exploration, operating and development activities. gulf of mexico . multiple development and exploration opportunities have been identified in the deepwater gom that are expected to benefit from tie-back opportunities to available production capacity at the fm o&amp;g operated large-scale holstein, marlin and horn mountain deepwater production platforms. holstein, in which we have a 100 percent working interest, is located in green canyon and has production facilities capable of producing in excess of 100 thousand barrels of oil equivalents (mboe) per day. the holstein platform rig refurbishment program was conducted in the second half of 2013 in preparation for drilling and workover activity, which commenced in first-quarter 2014. over the 2014 to 2016 period, we expect to drill seven sidetrack wells from the holstein platform and five subsea tie-back wells from contracted drill ships to enhance production volumes from the spar. near-term tie-back prospects in the holstein area include holstein deep and copper. the holstein deep development, in which we have a 100 percent working interest, is located four miles west of the holstein platform. fm o&amp;g acquired the acreage associated with this development in the 2013 lease sale held by the bureau of ocean energy management. two successful wells had previously been drilled and encountered approximately 500 net feet of oil pay in recent years. we plan to delineate this prospect during 2014. the copper exploration prospect, in which we have a 100 percent working interest, is located southeast of the holstein field in 4,400 feet of water and is a subsea tie-back opportunity to the holstein facility. the prospect is a holstein analog play with pliocene objectives and has a proposed total depth of 14,500 feet. development of the lucius field in keathley canyon, in which our subsidiary plains offshore has a 23.33 percent working interest, is progressing with first production anticipated in the second half of 2014. the geologic results from the six wells drilled since 2009 confirm a significant oil resource. subsea infrastructure is currently being installed, and topside facilities are more than 90 percent complete and on schedule to be delivered and lifted into place during 2014. the sanctioned development of lucius is a subsea development consisting of a truss spar hull located in 7,200 feet of water with a topside capacity of 80 thousand barrels (mbbls) of oil per day and 450 million cubic feet (mmcf) of gas per day. 42 table of contents during 2014, plains offshore also plans to commence drilling at the tara exploration prospect, in which we have a 100 percent working interest, located northwest of the lucius discovery in keathley canyon in 8,700 feet of water. tara is a lucius analog prospect with pliocene/miocene objectives and has a proposed total depth of 23,000 feet. eagle ford . we have an attractive position in an oil- and ngl-rich section of the eagle ford shale play in south texas. production from the field has grown significantly in recent years and sales averaged 46 mboe per day for the seven-month period following the acquisition of our oil and gas operations in 2013. as part of our capital spending reduction initiatives, we have reduced drilling activity at eagle ford from eight rigs in mid-2013. at december 31, 2013 , there were three drilling rigs operating, which we expect to reduce to two during 2014. at december 31, 2013 , there were 36 wells that were drilling or were drilled and pending completion or connection to pipelines. california . development plans are principally focused on maintaining stable production levels in the long established producing fields onshore california through continued drilling. haynesville . we have rights to a substantial natural gas resource, located in the haynesville shale play in north louisiana. drilling activities in recent years have been significantly reduced to maximize cash flows in a low natural gas price environment and to benefit from potentially higher future natural gas prices. inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous . we have an industry leading position in the emerging shallow-water inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend, located on the shelf of the gom and onshore south louisiana. we have a significant onshore and offshore lease acreage position with high-quality prospects and the potential to develop a significant long-term, low-cost source of natural gas. data from eight wells drilled to date indicate the presence of geologic formations that are analogous to productive formations in the deepwater gom and onshore in the gulf coast region. the near-term focus is on defining the trend onshore. we are currently completing two inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous exploration prospects, including one onshore well, and plan to perform production tests on these two wells and a third well in 2014. the lomond north discovery well within the highlander area, in which we are the operator and have a 72 percent working interest, located in st. martin parish, louisiana, has encountered gas pay in several wilcox and cretaceous aged sands between 24,000 feet and 29,000 feet. the wireline log and core data obtained from the wilcox and cretaceous sand packages indicated favorable reservoir characteristics with approximately 150 feet of net pay. the lomond north discovery well is currently in completion operations to test lower wilcox and cretaceous objectives found below the salt weld. we have identified multiple exploratory prospects in the highlander area where we control rights to approximately 56,000 gross acres. during 2013 , we commenced completion operations at davy jones no. 2, in which we have a 75 percent working interest, located on south marsh island block 234. flow testing is anticipated in the first half of 2014. during 2014, we also plan to complete the blackbeard west no. 2 well, in which we have a 92 percent working interest, located on ship shoal block 188. the lineham creek exploration well, in which we have a 36 percent working interest, located in cameron parish has been suspended while future plans are being developed. future production from certain specified inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous exploration prospects is subject to a five percent overriding royalty interest held by gulf coast ultra deep royalty trust. the overriding royalty interest is proportionately reduced based on our working interest in each prospect as provided in the trust documents. at december 31, 2013, we beneficially owned 27 percent of the royalty trust. refer to note 2 for further discussion of the royalty trust. morocco . we have a commitment to fund and drill two wells offshore the kingdom of morocco. we expect to commence drilling of the first exploration well in early 2015. 43 table of contents production and sales data the following table presents summary production data, average realized prices and average production costs for our oil and gas operations for the seven-month period in 2013 following the acquisition dates. seven-month period june 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013 gom a eagle ford california haynesville/madden/other total b oil sales (million barrels) 11.3 7.2 8.0 0.1 26.6 natural gas sales (billion cubic feet) production 17.3 8.8 2.1 26.8 55.0 used as fuel in our operations 0.8 0.8 sales 17.3 8.8 1.3 26.8 54.2 ngl sales (million barrels) 1.1 1.3 2.4 mmboe production 15.3 9.9 8.4 4.6 38.2 sales 15.3 9.9 8.3 4.6 38.1 average realized price, excluding derivatives oil (per barrel) $ 99.67 natural gas (per mmbtu) $ 3.73 ngls (per barrel) $ 38.20 average cost per boe production costs c $ 15.18 production and ad valorem taxes 1.96 cash production costs d $ 17.14 a. includes properties on the shelf and in the deepwater gom. b. at december 31, 2013, no individual fields represented 15 percent or more of our proved oil and gas reserves. c. reflects costs incurred to operate and maintain wells and related equipment and facilities. d. refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of cash production costs per boe and for a reconciliation to production and delivery costs reported in our consolidated financial statements. oil and natural gas reserves our reserve volumes have been determined in accordance with the current regulations and guidelines established by the sec, which require the use of an average price, calculated as the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference price as adjusted for location and quality differentials, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions and the impact of derivatives. reference prices for reserve determination are the wti spot price for crude oil and the henry hub spot price for natural gas. at december 31, 2013, our estimates were based on reference prices of $96.94 per barrel and $3.67 per mmbtu. all of our oil and natural gas reserves are located in the u.s. proved reserves. all of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves at december 31, 2013, are based upon reserve reports prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firms of netherland, sewell &amp; associates, inc. (nsai) and ryder scott company, l.p. (ryder scott). the scope and results of procedures employed by nsai and ryder scott are summarized in letters that are filed as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. for purposes of reserve estimation, we and our independent petroleum engineers used technical and economic data including well logs, geologic maps, seismic data, well test data, production data, historical price and cost information, and property ownership interests. our reserves have been estimated using deterministic methods. standard engineering and geoscience methods were used, or a combination of methods, including performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy, which we and our independent petroleum engineers considered to be appropriate and necessary to categorize and estimate reserves in accordance with sec definitions and regulations. a substantial portion of these reserves are for undeveloped locations; such reserves are based on estimates of reserve volumes and recovery efficiencies along with analogy to properties with similar geologic and reservoir characteristics. because these estimates depend on many assumptions, any or all of which may differ substantially from actual results, reserve estimates may differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that we ultimately recover. 44 proved reserves represent quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. the term reasonable certainty implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. at december 31, 2013, our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves totaled 464 mmboe, of which 80 percent was comprised of oil (including ngls). proved oil and natural gas reserves estimated at december 31, 2013 oil a natural gas total (mmbbls) (bcf) (mmboe) proved developed: gulf of mexico 73 125 94 eagle ford 36 41 43 california 126 29 131 haynesville/madden/other 1 228 39 236 423 307 proved undeveloped: gulf of mexico 64 77 77 eagle ford 14 12 16 california 56 7 57 haynesville/madden/other 43 7 134 139 157 total proved reserves 370 562 464 a. includes 20 mmbbls of ngl proved reserves, consisting of 14 mmbbls of proved developed and 6 mmbbls of proved undeveloped. at december 31, 2013 , we have an estimated total proved reserve life of seven years and a proved developed reserve life of 4.6 years. at december 31, 2013, our proved undeveloped reserves are 34 percent of our total proved reserves; 93 percent of our proved undeveloped reserves are scheduled for development within five years and 91 percent, or $3.2 billion, of our estimated future proved undeveloped capital is associated with the development of those reserves. the only exceptions are related to four planned sidetrack development wells in certain shelf and deepwater gom properties that cannot be executed until the current producing wells deplete. during the seven month period from june 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013, we invested $369 million and converted 19 mmboe to proved developed. during the seven month period from june 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013, we participated in 66 gross exploratory wells, of which 65 were successful, and 95 gross development wells, of which 94 were successful (refer to "drilling activities"). during this period, proved reserve additions from extensions and discoveries totaled 24 mmboe. the following table reflects the present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes from the production and sale of our estimated proved reserves reconciled to the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows (standardized measure) at december 31, 2013 (in millions): estimated undiscounted future net cash flows before income taxes $ 19,647 present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes (pv-10) a,b $ 12,643 discounted future income taxes (3,226 ) standardized measure (refer to note 21) $ 9,417 a. in accordance with sec guidelines, estimates of future net cash flows from our proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference prices as adjusted for location and quality differentials. reference prices as of december 31, 2013 , were $96.94 per barrel of oil and $3.67 per mmbtu of natural gas. these prices are held constant throughout the life of the oil and gas properties, except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. in accordance with the guidelines and excluding the impact of derivative instruments, the average realized prices used in our reserve reports as of december 31, 2013 , were $99.67 per barrel of oil and $3.64 per mcf of natural gas. our reference prices are the wti spot price for crude oil and the henry hub spot price for natural gas and are calculated as the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical prices. 45 b. the present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes (pv-10) is not considered a u.s. generally accepted accounting principle (gaap) financial measure. we believe that our pv-10 presentation is an important measure and useful to our investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves before taking into account the related future income taxes, as such taxes may differ among companies because of differences in the amounts and timing of deductible basis, net operating loss carryforwards and other factors. we believe investors use our pv-10 as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our proved reserves to the reserve estimates of other companies. pv-10 is not a measure of financial or operating performance under u.s. gaap and is not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. pv-10 should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under u.s. gaap. probable reserves. all of our estimated probable oil and natural gas reserves at december 31, 2013, are based upon reserve reports prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firms of nsai and ryder scott. probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves, but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. in addition to the uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves, probable reserves may be assigned to areas where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonably certain criterion. probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. probable reserve estimates also include potential incremental qualities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves. undeveloped reserves that meet the reasonably certain, economic and other requirements to be classified as proved undeveloped, except that they are not expected to be developed within five years, are classified as probable reserves. at december 31, 2013, our estimated probable oil and natural gas reserves totaled 184 mmboe, of which 83 percent was comprised of oil (including ngls). probable oil and natural gas reserves estimated at december 31, 2013 oil a natural gas total (mmbbls) (bcf) (mmboe) probable developed b : gulf of mexico 22 34 28 eagle ford 1 2 2 california 5 1 5 haynesville/madden/other 14 2 28 51 37 probable undeveloped: gulf of mexico 36 59 46 eagle ford 7 5 8 california 82 38 88 haynesville/madden/other 32 5 125 134 147 total probable reserves 153 185 184 a. includes 6 mmbbls of ngl probable reserves, consisting of 2 mmbbls of probable developed and 4 mmbbls of probable undeveloped. b. reflects reserves associated with incremental recovery from existing production/injection wells that require minimal to no future development costs and reserves associated with work performed on existing producers/injectors that do not meet the reasonable certainty requirements to be classified as proved reserves. internal control and qualifications of third party engineers and internal staff. the technical personnel responsible for preparing the reserve estimates at nsai and ryder scott meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserves information promulgated by the society of petroleum engineers. both nsai and ryder scott are independent firms of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists; neither firm owns an interest in our properties nor are employed on a contingent fee basis. our internal reservoir engineering staff are led and overseen by our vice president of engineering, who has over 37 years of technical experience in petroleum engineering and reservoir evaluation and analysis. this individual directs the activities of our internal reservoir staff for the internal reserve estimation process and also to provide the appropriate data to nsai and ryder scott for our year-end oil and natural gas reserves estimation process. 46 drilling activities the following table provides the total number of wells that we drilled during the seven month period from june 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013: gross net exploratory productive: oil 40 35 gas 25 2 dry 1 1 66 38 development productive: oil 71 66 gas 23 8 dry 1 1 95 75 161 113 at december 31, 2013, there were 36 gross exploratory and 60 gross development wells (23 net exploratory and 19 net development wells) in progress, including 50 gross wells (5 net wells) in progress in the haynesville shale play and 36 gross wells (31 net wells) in progress in the eagle ford shale play. productive wells at december 31, 2013, we had working interests in 3,310 gross (3,153 net) active producing oil wells and 1,651 gross (238 net) active producing natural gas wells. one or more completions in the same well bore are considered one well. if any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion, such well is classified as an oil well. at december 31, 2013, we owned interests in five gross wells containing multiple completions. 47 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. this report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of united states (u.s.) federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as expectations relating to ore grades and milling rates; production and sales volumes; unit net cash costs; cash production costs per barrel of oil equivalent (boe); operating cash flows; capital expenditures; exploration efforts and results; development and production activities and costs; liquidity; tax rates; the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum, cobalt and crude oil price changes; the impact of derivative positions; availability of power, water, labor and equipment; reclamation and closure costs and plans; litigation contingencies; political, economic and social conditions; the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings; reserve estimates; future dividend payments; debt reduction and share purchases. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following: financial risks declines in the market prices of copper, gold and/or oil could adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and asset values and, if sustained, could adversely affect our ability to repay debt. fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold or oil can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and common stock. our financial results vary with fluctuations in the market prices of the commodities we produce, primarily copper, gold and oil, and to a lesser extent molybdenum, silver, cobalt and natural gas. for further information about the market prices of our primary commodities, refer to the discussion below and md&amp;a. a substantial or extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, the value of our assets and/or our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and could depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. additionally, if the market prices for the commodities we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, halting or delaying expansion projects, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. we may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses. fluctuations in commodities prices can occur because of varied and complex factors beyond our control, including: global supply and demand balances and inventory levels; global economic and geopolitical conditions; government regulatory, trade and tax policies; commodities investment activity and speculation; price and availability of substitute products; and changes in technology. copper prices may also be affected by demand from china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world, and by increases in demand for industrial products containing copper. factors particularly affecting gold prices may include the relative strength of the u.s. dollar to other currencies, inflation and interest rate expectations, purchases and sales of gold by governments and central banks, demand from china and india, two of the world ' largest consumers of gold, and demand for jewelry containing gold. 48 table of contents crude oil prices may also be affected by actions of the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other major oil producing nations; political and weather conditions in oil producing regions; transportation and refinery capacity; the amount of foreign imports of oil into the u.s.; and potential changes in u.s. laws restricting oil exports. substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted london metal exchange (lme) monthly average spot copper prices. accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from adjustments to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs. a decline in the price of crude oil, and to a lesser extent natural gas, could also result in a "ceiling" write-down of the carrying value of our proved oil and natural gas properties and/or of goodwill recorded in connection with our oil and gas acquisitions. at december 31, 2013 , the ceiling with respect to our oil and gas properties exceeded the net capitalized costs of those properties by approximately 4 percent, and we did not record an impairment. given the volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices, it is likely that our estimate of discounted future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves will change in the near term. if crude oil and natural gas prices decline in the future, even if only by a small amount, impairments of our oil and gas properties could occur. for further discussion of our accounting policies and estimates used in evaluating our oil and gas properties and goodwill for impairment, refer to note 1 and md&amp;a. any impairment charge related to our oil and gas properties or goodwill could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stockholders' equity, but would have no effect on cash flows. our debt and other financial commitments may limit our financial and operating flexibility. at december 31, 2013 , our total consolidated debt was $20.7 billion, including $17.2 billion incurred or assumed in connection with the acquisition of plains exploration &amp; production company (pxp), and our total consolidated cash was $2.0 billion. although we have been successful in repaying significant amounts of debt in the past, there can be no assurance that we can do so in the future. we also have various other financial commitments, including for reclamation and environmental obligations, take-or-pay contracts, derivative contracts and leases. our level of indebtedness and other financial commitments could have important consequences to our business, including the following: limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we operate; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, to engage in future development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. in addition, a future downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our cost of and ability to access capital. at december 31, 2013 , our senior unsecured debt was rated "bbb" with a negative outlook by standard and poor's, "bbb" with a stable outlook by fitch ratings, and "baa3" with a stable outlook by moody's investors service. we cannot be assured that our credit ratings will not be downgraded in the future. in addition, a downgrade could affect our requirements to provide significant financial assurance of our performance under certain legal requirements and contractual arrangements. refer to the following risk factor for more information. under u.s. federal and state laws that require closure and reclamation plans for our mines, we generally are required to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement those plans if we are unable to do so. we are also required to provide bonds or other forms of financial assurance in connection with our oil and gas operations. the failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. we are required by u.s. federal and state mining laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. the u.s. environmental protection 49 table of contents agency (epa) and state agencies may also seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions that are required under settlements of enforcement actions under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla) or equivalent state regulations. with respect to our mining operations, most of our financial assurance obligations are imposed by state laws that vary significantly by jurisdiction. currently there are no financial assurance requirements under cercla, but in july 2009, epa published a notice identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements under cercla. in epa's semi-annual regulatory agenda issued in november 2013, epa indicated that it intends to propose regulations regarding hardrock mining financial responsibility in august 2016. it is uncertain how the new requirements, if promulgated, will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations. we are also subject to financial assurance requirements in connection with our oil and gas operations under both state and federal laws. for example, permits, bonding and insurance are required to drill, operate, and plug and abandon wells. also, the bureau of ocean energy management (boem) and the bureau of safety and environmental enforcement (bsee) regulations applicable to lessees in federal waters require that lessees have substantial u.s. assets and net worth or post bonds or other acceptable financial assurance that the regulatory obligations will be met. financial responsibility requirements are also required under the oil pollution act of 1990 to cover containment and cleanup costs resulting from an oil spill. boem has signaled its intention to redesign and implement revised financial assurance requirements associated with offshore plugging and abandonment obligations. boem has recently taken a stricter approach regarding the level of decommissioning liabilities to be included in its financial test for purposes of determining eligibility for exemption from financial assurance requirements. it is uncertain whether additional changes will be implemented by the boem and how these changes might affect the form and amount of our existing and future financial assurance obligations associated with our offshore activities in federal waters. as of december 31, 2013 , our financial assurance obligations associated with closure, reclamation and remediation in our mining and plugging and abandonment obligations in our oil and gas operations totaled approximately $2.4 billion , and a substantial portion of these obligations were satisfied by fcx guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. if our financial condition were to deteriorate substantially or our credit rating were downgraded, we may be required to provide additional or alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. these other forms of assurance would be costly to provide and, depending on our financial condition and market conditions, may be difficult or impossible to obtain. failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines or suspension of the affected oil and gas operations. for additional information, refer to the environmental risk factor "mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. we also have plugging and abandonment obligations relating to our oil and gas operations." movements in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our operating results. the functional currency for most of our operations is the u.s. dollar. all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in u.s. dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the indonesian rupiah, australian dollar, chilean peso, peruvian nuevo sol and euro. generally, our results are positively affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the u.s. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. refer to item 7a. "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a summary of the estimated impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs. from time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates; however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign currency payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. 50 table of contents international risks our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in countries outside the u.s. we are a u.s.-based natural resource company with substantial mining assets located outside of the u.s. (as of december 31, 2013 , substantially all of our oil and gas operations were in the u.s.). we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru, chile and the democratic republic of congo (drc). accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in countries outside the u.s., our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. risks of conducting business in countries outside of the u.s. include: renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts; expropriation or nationalization of property; changes in another country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, which because of rising "resource nationalism" in countries around the world, may impose increasingly onerous requirements on foreign operations and investment; political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; changes in the aspirations and expectations of local communities in which we operate with respect to our contributions to employee health and safety, infrastructure and community development and other factors that may affect our social license to operate, all of which lead to increased costs; foreign exchange controls; and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of an international court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. may be substantially affected by many unpredictable factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our international operations must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we operate. there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws. although we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of violations of such laws, any violation could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax matters with the indonesian and peruvian tax authorities (refer to note 12 for further discussion of these matters). other risks specific to certain countries in which we operate are discussed in more detail below. because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia. our mining operations in indonesia are conducted by our subsidiary pt freeport indonesia (pt-fi) pursuant to a contract of work (cow) with the indonesian government. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because of the significance of our indonesia operations to our business, and because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, 51 table of contents and the number of people employed, our indonesia operations have been the subject of political debates and of criticism in the indonesian press, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. in 2009, indonesia enacted a mining law (2009 mining law), which operates under a licensing system that is significantly less protective of licensees than the contract of work system that governs pt-fi. the 2009 mining law and the regulations issued pursuant to that law provide that contracts of work would continue to be honored until their expiration. however, the regulations, including those issued in january 2014, attempt to apply certain provisions of the 2009 mining law and regulations to existing contracts of work and seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work. in january 2012, the president of indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team of ministers to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 mining law and to take steps to assess and determine the indonesian government's position on reduction to the size of contract concessions, increasing government revenues and domestic processing of minerals. we have been engaged in discussions with officials of the indonesian government to complete this evaluation process and obtain an extension of the pt-fi cow beyond its primary term ending in 2021 to 2041, as provided under the terms of the cow, which can only be modified by mutual agreement between pt-fi and the indonesian government. we cannot predict the outcome of our engagement with the indonesian government regarding the relationship between the 2009 mining law and related regulations and our cow, nor whether or on what terms we will be able to secure an extension of our cow, but the outcome of these discussions may result in revisions to certain terms of the cow. in january 2014, the indonesian government published regulations providing that holders of contracts of work with existing processing facilities in indonesia may continue to export product through january 12, 2017, but established new requirements for the continued export of copper concentrates, including the imposition of a progressive export duty on copper concentrates in the amount of 25 percent in 2014, rising to 60 percent by mid-2016. pt-fi's cow authorizes it to export concentrates and specifies the taxes and other fiscal terms available to its operations. the cow states that pt-fi shall not be subject to taxes, duties or fees subsequently imposed or approved by the indonesian government except as expressly provided in the cow. additionally, pt-fi complied with the requirements of its cow for local processing by arranging for the construction and commissioning of indonesia's only copper smelter and refinery, which is owned and operated by pt smelting (pt-fi's 25 percent owned smelter). the january 2014 regulations conflict with pt-fi ' contractual rights under its cow. we are working with the indonesian government to clarify the situation and to defend pt-fi ' rights under its cow. pt-fi is also seeking to obtain the required administrative permits for 2014 exports, which have been delayed as a result of the new regulations. as of february 21, 2014, pt-fi has not obtained administrative approval for 2014 exports. pt-fi has implemented near-term changes to its operations to coordinate its concentrate production with pt smelting's operating plans. since mid-january 2014, pt-fi's milling rate has averaged approximately 112,000 metric tons of ore per day, which is approximately half of normal rates. pt-fi is engaging with the government of indonesia to reach a resolution that would enable pt-fi to resume normal operations as soon as possible. in the event that pt-fi is unable to resume normal operations for an extended period, we plan to consider further actions, including constraining operating costs, deferring capital expenditures and implementing workforce reductions. pt-fi may also be required to declare force majeure under its concentrate sales agreements. in april 2014, indonesia will hold elections for legislators at the national, provincial and district levels. the presidential election will be held in july 2014, with a run-off in september 2014, if required. the outcome of these elections could affect the country ' policies pertaining to foreign investment. indonesia has also faced separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. several separatist groups have sought political independence for the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located. in response, indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective january 1, 2001. the manner in which those laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy they may bring to individual provinces, including papua, remain uncertain and continue to be ongoing issues in indonesian politics. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our indonesian operations. 52 table of contents since july 2009 there have been 51 incidents in and around the grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which have resulted in 17 fatalities and 59 injuries. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt-fi continues to work with the indonesian government to address security issues. the investigation of these incidents is ongoing. we also continue to limit the use of the road leading to our mining and milling operations to secured convoys. any additional prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect our indonesian operations. large numbers of illegal miners continue to operate along the river used to transport the tailings from the mill to pt-fi's government-approved tailings management area in the lowlands. the illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted unsuccessfully for years to move them away from our facilities. in 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the grasberg mine and mill in protest, and pt-fi temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our indonesian operations. if other disruptive incidents occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict at this time. for discussion of labor disruptions at pt-fi, refer to the operational risk factor "labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects." we will not mine all of our ore reserves in indonesia before the initial term of our cow expires. the initial term of pt-fi's cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and our current mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current cow. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 26 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2013 , representing 32 percent of pt-fi's share of recoverable copper reserves and 45 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve our cow extensions. for further discussion, refer to the above risk factor "because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia." pt-fi's cow may be subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel. pt-fi's cow was entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. the cow may be subject to termination by the indonesian government if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. certain indonesian laws and regulations may conflict with the mining rights established under the cow. although the cow grants to pt-fi the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the cow, government agencies may seek to impose additional restrictions on pt-fi that could affect exploration and operating requirements. for discussion of the regulations published in january 2014 by the indonesian government, which conflict with our cow, refer to the risk factor "because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia." at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the indonesian government prior to may 1998 ( i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt-fi's cow, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the cow will not be challenged for political or other reasons. pt-fi's cow requires that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. accordingly, if a dispute arises under the cow, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an 53 table of contents international arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of an international arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. additionally, our operations may be adversely affected while resolution of a dispute is pending. the tenke fungurume (tenke) minerals district is located in the katanga province of the drc, and may be adversely affected by security risks and political, economic and social instability in the drc. since gaining independence in 1960, the drc has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crises. these factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. as part of a review of all mining contracts by the ministry of mines (the ministry) in the drc, in february 2008, we received notification that the ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of tenke fungurume mining s.a.r.l.'s (tfm) mining contracts. in october 2010, the drc government concluded its review of tfm's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. in connection with the review, several amendments were made to tfm ' mining contracts and governing documents, and in march 2012, fcx's effective ownership in tfm was reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. political, economic, social and security risks in the drc are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business. these risks include legal and regulatory uncertainties; exposure to an environment of governmental corruption and bribery; attempts to increase taxes or claims for fees and penalties by governmental officials, including retroactive claims; administrative disputes; security risks resulting from political instability in the drc; and risk of loss because of civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. in addition to ongoing conflict in the eastern region of the drc, there have been acts of violence in the katanga province where the tenke minerals district is located. the safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority, and tfm works cooperatively with government officials to address security issues; however, no assurance can be given that conflict or random acts of violence will not occur near or impact tenke's operations. accordingly, our tenke operations and future development activities at the tenke minerals district may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could interrupt tfm ' operations or future development activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. operational risks our mining and oil and gas operations are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. mining . mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control, and many of which are not covered fully, or in some cases even partially, by insurance. these operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flow, include the following: earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; the occurrence of unexpected weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines; interruption of energy supply; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; 54 table of contents metallurgical and other processing problems; unanticipated ground and water conditions; adverse claims to water rights, adverse outcomes of pending water adjudications and physical shortages of water to which we have legal rights; adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government authorizations, approvals or permits; delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; and the inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage. managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations also presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks. we maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are monitored for structural stability and leakages; our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions; and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage. in indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors. the failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both in and around our areas of operations, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in or curtailments of production. oil and gas . our oil and gas operations are also subject to operating hazards, including well blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids and pipeline ruptures, as well as natural disasters such as earthquakes, mudslides and hurricanes. our operations in california, including transportation of oil by pipelines within the city and county of los angeles, are especially susceptible to damage from earthquakes and involve increased risks of personal injury, property damage and marketing interruptions because of the population density of southern california. our operations in the gulf of mexico (gom) and gulf coast region are particularly susceptible to interruption and damage from hurricanes. any of these operating hazards could cause personal injuries, fatalities, oil spills, discharge of hazardous substances into the air, soil, water and groundwater and other property or environmental damage, lost production and revenue, remediation and clean-up costs and liability for damages, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and may not be fully covered by our insurance. further, drilling, completing, and operating wells may also be delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected geologic conditions, increases in the cost of or shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and equipment, and delays in the issuance of required permits by governmental agencies. increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flows. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. for the year 2013, energy represented approximately 20 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. an inability to procure sufficient fuel and energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our consolidated copper production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, tires and explosives. the prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control, and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. in our oil and gas operations, increased costs or unavailability of drilling rigs, workboats, experienced personnel, or other equipment, supplies or oil field services, which may occur particularly during times of increased industry activity, may adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget, and could have a material adverse effect on the financial performance of our oil and gas operations. 55 table of contents labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as further described in part i, items 1 and 2 "business and properties" we are party to labor agreements with various unions that represent employees at certain of our mining operations (none of the employees of our oil and gas operations are represented by a union or covered by a collective labor agreement). labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and the risk exists that labor agreements may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. issues that may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees are unpredictable and, if raised, negotiations concerning those issues may not be concluded successfully. our production and sales volumes could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations adversely affected by significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. during 2011, pt-fi was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. the strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. additionally, during first-quarter 2012, pt-fi experienced work interruptions in connection with its efforts to resume normal operations and temporarily suspended operations. in october 2013, pt-fi entered into a new biennial labor agreement. in fourth-quarter 2011, there was an approximate two-month labor strike at cerro verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. the strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three-year agreement with the union was reached in late december 2011. in november 2013, cerro verde entered into a new four-year labor agreement with its union, which is effective upon the expiration of the current agreement, beginning september 1, 2014. as of december 31, 2013 , 49 percent of our labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements, and one percent of our labor force is covered by agreements that will expire during 2014 . if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies. our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. most of our mining operations in north and south america are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. at our north america mining operations, certain of our water supplies are supported by surface water rights, which allow us to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. in arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which the arizona courts have been attempting, for over 30 years, to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems, which affect four of our operating mines (morenci, safford, sierrita and miami). the legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our bagdad mine. groundwater has historically been treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. however, court decisions in one of the adjudications have concluded that groundwater pumping may affect surface water, thereby bringing the pumping within the jurisdiction of the general stream adjudications. the effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water remains contested, however, and is currently a primary focus of one of those adjudications. because groundwater accounts for approximately 40 percent of arizona ' water supplies, the re-characterization of any significant portion of that water as surface water could jeopardize the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us, to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a significant user of groundwater in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings. in colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority and administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the climax molybdenum mine. in new mexico, our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated. 56 table of contents water for our cerro verde mining operation in peru comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. due to occasional drought conditions and the possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our current and planned cerro verde operations. cerro verde completed studies to assess opportunities for additional water supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. cerro verde has reached agreements with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, the local water utility servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar), and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa. cerro verde has obtained authorization to reuse an annual average of one cubic meter per second of the treated water, which is expected to supplement existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion. water for our el abra mining operation in chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. el abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations; however, a change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our allowable groundwater pumping, which is permitted through 2021. el abra is conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the pacific ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing. water for our candelaria and ojos del salado mining operations in chile comes from a nearby wastewater treatment facility and our desalination plant and pipeline that were completed in 2013. both of these sources will supply candelaria's and ojos del salado ' long-term water needs. although each of our mining operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, some supplies are subject to unresolved claims by others, and additional supplies that may be needed to support expanded operations are expensive, in short supply, and can be difficult to access because of logistical and legal obstacles. moreover, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. loss of a water right, loss of continued use of a currently available water supply, or inability to expand our water resources could materially and adversely affect our mining operations, by significantly increasing the cost of water, forcing us to curtail operations, preventing us from expanding operations or forcing premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. the grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. these conditions require us to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. in may 2013, a tragic accident, which resulted in 28 fatalities and 10 injuries, occurred at pt-fi when the rock structure above an underground ceiling for a training facility collapsed. while the accident occurred outside the area of mining operations, pt-fi temporarily suspended mining and processing activities at the grasberg complex to conduct inspections of its facilities in coordination with indonesian government authorities. following approval from indonesia's department of energy and mineral resources, pt-fi resumed open-pit mining and concentrating activities at its grasberg operations on june 24, 2013, and resumed underground operations on july 9, 2013. in april 2011, two pt-fi employees died in an accident when a portion of the doz underground mine experienced an uncontrolled muck flow. the area was temporarily shut down during the investigation of the accident. we have experienced mud/topsoil slides and slippages of material in and near our open-pit operations in the past, which have since october 2003 resulted in 11 fatalities and some production delays. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. 57 table of contents in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our africa mining operations involve additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the drc. the tenke minerals district is located in a remote area of the drc and is subject to additional challenges, including severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; challenges in obtaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria, cholera and hiv. additionally, because of limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the tenke mines approximately 1,900 miles to ports in south africa. the tenke minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. our reserves are estimates, and actual recoveries may vary significantly. there are numerous uncertainties and assumptions inherent in estimating mineral and oil and natural gas reserves, and geological, technical and economic assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available. assumptions and estimates include the geology of the ore body or reservoir, development methods to be used and projected operating costs. fluctuations in these variables and in commodities prices may result in lower grade reserves or resources being deemed uneconomic, and could lead to a reduction in reserves or resources. our actual recoveries may vary significantly from our estimated reserves. decreases in estimated reserves could result in prospective increases in our depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, and could also result in impairment charges. refer to notes 1, 20 and 21 and md&amp;a for further discussion. we must continually replace reserves depleted by production, but our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our existing mineral and oil and natural gas reserves will be depleted over time by production from our operations. because our profits are derived from our mining and oil and gas operations, our ability to replenish our reserves is essential to our long-term success. our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of additional deposits or reservoirs that can be produced profitably. we may not be able to discover, enhance, develop or acquire reserves in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow our current reserve levels, which could negatively affect our business and prospects. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects (refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of our current development projects). the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, estimated capital and operating costs, and estimated future prices of the relevant commodity. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines, wells, or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction or drilling schedules can adversely affect project economics. key factors that may affect the timing, costs and outcome of such projects include the following: geologic, geotechnical, hydrogeologic and weather conditions; hiring and training of personnel; issuance of necessary permits and licenses by governmental agencies; civil and political environment of the country or region in which the project is located; and access to or development of supporting infrastructure and availability of critical equipment. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. the actual costs, production rates and economic returns of our development projects may differ materially from our estimates, which may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 58 table of contents operations in the deepwater gom present greater operating risks than operations in the shallower waters or onshore. in addition, our shallow water and onshore operations that target ultra-deep prospects involve greater risks and costs than conventional gom shelf and onshore gulf coast prospects. the deepwater gom area presents significant challenges because of risks associated with geological complexity, water depth and higher drilling and development costs, any of which can cause substantial cost overruns. the deepwater gom also lacks the infrastructure present in shallower waters, which can result in significant delays in obtaining or maintaining production. as a result, deepwater operations may require significant time between a discovery and marketability, thereby increasing the financial risk of these operations. our inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous exploration prospects target formations below the salt weld on the gom shelf and onshore in south louisiana. these targets have not traditionally been the subject of exploratory activity in these regions, so that little direct comparative data is available. to date, there has been no production of hydrocarbons from inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous reservoirs in these areas. the lack of comparative data and the limitations of diagnostic tools operating in the extreme temperatures and pressures encountered at these depths make it difficult to predict reservoir quality and well performance of these formations. wells drilled in these formations are also significantly more expensive to drill and complete than wells drilled to more conventional depths. major contributors to such increased costs include far higher temperatures and pressures encountered down hole, longer drilling times and the cost and extended procurement time related to the specialized equipment required to drill and complete these types of wells. our operations are subject to extensive regulations, some of which require permits and other approvals. these regulations increase our costs and in some circumstances may delay or suspend our operations. our operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that are subject to change and to changing interpretation by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with broad supervisory authority. as a natural resource company, compliance with environmental legal requirements is an integral and costly part of our business. for additional information, see "environmental risks." we are also subject to extensive regulation of worker health and safety, including the requirements of the u.s. federal occupational safety and health act and similar laws of other jurisdictions. in the u.s., the operation of our mines is subject to regulation by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. msha inspects our mines on a regular basis and issues citations and orders when it believes a violation has occurred. if such inspections result in an alleged violation, we may be subject to fines and penalties and, in instances of alleged significant violations, our mining operations could be subject to temporary or extended closures. our oil and gas operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations that require, among other things, permits for the drilling and operation of wells and bonding and insurance to drill, operate and plug and abandon wells, and that regulate the safety of our pipelines. our u.s. offshore operations in federal waters are subject to broad regulation by the boem/bsee, which among other things must issue permits in connection with our exploration, drilling, development and production plans. under certain circumstances boem/bsee may impose penalties and may suspend or terminate any of our operations on federal leases. many other governmental bodies regulate our operations, and our failure to comply with these legal requirements can result in substantial penalties. in addition, new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations by courts or regulatory authorities occur regularly, but are difficult to predict. any such variations could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. certain of our undeveloped oil and gas leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. approximately 41 percent of our total u.s. net undeveloped acres are covered by leases that expire from 2014 to 2016. with respect to our undeveloped oil and gas leaseholds, unless production in paying quantities is established on units during the term of the leases, the leases will expire. if leases expire and we are unable to renew or obtain new leases, we will lose our right to develop those properties. our drilling plans are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. refer to items 1. and 2. "business and properties" for further discussion of our oil and gas operations' acreage. 59 table of contents we have limited control over the development of oil and gas properties in which we have an interest but do not operate. certain of our oil and gas properties, including lucius, ram powell, lineham creek, haynesville and portions of our eagle ford acreage, are operated by other companies and involve third party working interest owners. as a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties. additionally, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the operating costs and capital expenditures of such projects. these limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for their operation and/or funding of these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs, result in lower production and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our business may be adversely affected by information technology disruptions. cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency, evolving in nature and include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks. however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. environmental risks our operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations. compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain our expansion opportunities. our operations, both in the u.s. and internationally, are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations governing the generation, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances, waste disposal, air emissions, water discharges, remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, including oil spill cleanup, mine closure and well plug and abandonment requirements, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. in addition, we must obtain regulatory permits and approvals to start, continue and expand operations. laws such as cercla and similar state laws may subject us to joint and several liability for environmental damages caused by previous owners or operators of properties we acquired or are currently operating or at sites where we sent materials for processing, recycling or disposal. as discussed in more detail in the next risk factor, we have substantial obligations for environmental remediation on mining properties previously owned or operated by freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc) and certain of its affiliates. some of our onshore california oil and gas fields have been in operation for more than 100 years, and current or future legal requirements may impose substantial expenditures to remediate the properties or to otherwise comply with these requirements. noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in material penalties or other liabilities. in addition, compliance with these laws may from time to time result in delays in or changes to our development or expansion plans. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. for example, under the clean air act, epa recently lowered the national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for sulfur dioxide. the area around our smelter in miami, arizona, has sulfur dioxide levels in excess of the new standard, and the smelter is the primary contributor to those levels. as a result, we are required to install pollution control equipment as part of an expansion that will allow the smelter to operate and comply with the new sulfur dioxide standard, but will increase our operating cost. in addition, in response to the 2010 deepwater horizon incident in the gom, the boem/bsee issued new guidelines and regulations regarding, among other things, environmental matters and decommissioning applicable to oil and gas drilling in the gom. these regulations require, among other things, independent third-party inspections, certification of well design and well control equipment and emergency response plans in the event of a blowout. 60 table of contents we also believe there has generally been more aggressive application of the endangered species act, resulting in increases in the number of protected species and expansive designations of their critical habitat, which may make obtaining federal permits and securing additional water resources more time-consuming, unpredictable and expensive. new or revised environmental legal requirements are frequently proposed, many of which result in substantially increased costs for our business. for example, epa has proposed rules that, if effective, would reclassify some mineral processing materials as "hazardous waste" under the federal resource conservation and recovery act, which would reverse long-standing epa regulatory determinations and subject the industry to significant new and costly waste management requirements. other regulation under consideration by environmental regulatory agencies include provisions that would impose additional restrictions on waterway discharges and land use, and regulate environmental impacts of radioactive materials associated with mining operations and expand regulation of solid wastes, among other things. adoption of these or similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs and constrain our expansion opportunities. during 2013, we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $595 million , compared with $612 million in 2012 and $387 million in 2011 . for 2014 , we expect to incur approximately $475 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation and plug and abandonment activities, the settlement of environmental matters and as actual spending occurs. we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on mining properties that have not been operated in many years. fmc and its subsidiaries, and many of their affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies fully understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for the clean up of hazardous substances released into the environment from properties owned or operated by them, including damages to natural resources, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other prior and subsequent owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean-up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2013 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects (including damaged natural resource claims) in 28 u.s. states. in addition, fmc and certain affiliates and predecessor companies were parties to agreements relating to the transfer of businesses or properties, which contained indemnification provisions relating to environmental matters, and which from time to time become the source of claims against us. at december 31, 2013 , we had $1.2 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributed to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago; 61 table of contents our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. in addition, remediation standards for environmental media imposed by epa and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time and may become more stringent in the future. imposition of more stringent remediation standards poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. refer to note 12 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesian government, uses the unnavigable river system in the highlands near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. from time to time, certain indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than the river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. in connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the indonesian government, we committed to perform a one-time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. we completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the indonesian government in december 2002. we developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the indonesian government, academia and non-governmental organizations. the risks identified during this process were consistent with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents. since 2005, pt-fi has participated in the indonesian government's proper (program for pollution control, evaluation and rating) program. pt-fi received a blue rating for the last proper audit by the indonesian ministry of environment. that audit was conducted in 2010, and the blue rating indicated that pt-fi's environmental management practices were in compliance with the laws and regulations of indonesia. since then, as allowed under environmental law 4/2009, the indonesian ministry of environment has continued to audit pt-fi but not using the 62 table of contents proper protocol, which has proven to be impractical for the size of the pt-fi operation. there have been no compliance issues, and the latest audit was in fourth-quarter 2013. mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. we also have plugging and abandonment obligations relating to our oil and gas operations. our u.s. mining operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined-land reclamation obligations. these requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. the laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. in general, our u.s. mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and to post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required by state regulators. it is uncertain how potential epa requirements for financial assurance will affect the timing of periodic closure cost reviews or the scope of closure activities. in july 2011, the chilean senate passed legislation regulating mine closure, which established new requirements for closure plans and became effective in november 2012. our chilean operations are required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. revised closure plans for the chilean mine sites are due in november 2014. cerro verde is subject to regulation under the mine closure law administered by the peruvian ministry of energy and mines. under the closure regulations, mines must submit a closure plan that includes the reclamation methods, closure cost estimates, methods of control and verification, closure and post-closure plans and financial assurance. an updated closure plan for the cerro verde mine expansion was submitted to the peruvian ministry of energy and mines in november 2013. in december 2009, pt-fi submitted its revised mine closure plan to the department of energy and mineral resources for review and has addressed comments received during the course of this review process. in december 2010, the president of indonesia issued a regulation regarding mine reclamation and closure, which requires a company to provide a mine closure guarantee in the form of a time deposit placed in a state-owned bank in indonesia. in accordance with its cow, pt-fi is working with the department of energy and mineral resources to review these requirements, including discussions of other options for the mine closure guarantee. we cannot predict at this time the cost of these mine closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required, which amounts could be substantial. additionally, substantially all of our oil and gas leases require that, upon termination of economic production, the working interest owners plug and abandon non-producing wellbores, remove equipment and facilities from leased acreage and restore land in accordance with applicable local, state and federal laws. at december 31, 2013 , we had asset retirement obligations (aros) of $2.3 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet, which included $1.1 billion for our oil and gas operations. aro cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in closure regulations, changes in engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, changes in mine plans, inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. refer to note 12 for further discussion. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets. many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, contribute to climate change. carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, and our revenues include significant sales of oil, ngls and gas, and other carbon-based energy products. a number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory initiatives designed to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. many u.s. states have taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. for example, in california, the california air resources board (carb) has developed "cap and trade" regulations pursuant to the california global warming solutions act of 2006 intended to achieve an overall reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels, a 15 percent reduction by 2020. some of our operations in california are subject to these regulations, which require us to purchase offsets and allowance instruments ( i.e., 63 table of contents equivalent units equal to one metric ton of emissions under the california global warming solutions act of 2006). the total amount of instruments we must purchase will vary annually. while we do not expect these costs to be material, similar or more onerous state regulations could substantially increase our costs. in june 2010, the epa issued final regulations under the clean air act for the control of greenhouse gases from new large stationary sources and major modifications to existing large stationary sources. this and other federal greenhouse gas regulations have been challenged in judicial proceedings. certain of our operations, including the miami smelter, could be materially affected by these regulations if plant emissions exceed applicable thresholds. in addition, anticipated future epa regulations covering large fossil fuel fired power plants may materially increase energy costs at our operations. the u.s. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our u.s. operations. from a medium and long-term perspective, we may experience increased costs relating to our greenhouse gas emissions as a result of regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. in addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. although we have modeled different scenarios, we cannot predict the magnitude of increased costs with any certainty given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may also reduce demand for the oil and gas we produce. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. these may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. these effects may adversely affect the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. proposed federal, state or local regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could increase our oil and gas operating and capital costs. our oil and gas operations utilize hydraulic fracturing and other types of well stimulation. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate the flow of oil and gas. hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of oil and gas from many reservoirs, especially shale formations such as the haynesville and eagle ford shale plays. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and agencies, and continues to receive significant regulatory and legislative attention at the federal, state, and local levels. several proposals are before the u.s. congress that, if implemented, would either prohibit or restrict the practice of hydraulic fracturing or subject the process to more extensive regulations. several states have adopted or are considering legislation to regulate hydraulic fracturing practices that could impose more stringent permitting, transparency, and well construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. in addition, some municipalities have significantly limited or prohibited drilling activities and/or hydraulic fracturing, or are considering doing so. although it is not possible to predict the final outcome of any legislation regarding hydraulic fracturing, any new federal, state or local restrictions on hydraulic fracturing, including those related to use of land and water, that are enacted in areas where we conduct our oil and gas operations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. other risks unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation or with respect to other contingencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to the litigation and subject to other contingencies, including those described in note 12 and in item 3. "legal proceedings" involving such matters as asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites, claims of personal injury and property damage arising from environmental contamination, disputes over water rights, disputes over taxes and other disputes with regulatory authorities. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. if any of these disputes results in a substantial 64 table of contents monetary judgment against us or is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a negative outcome in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. achieving this objective may be difficult because of many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees to maintain our current business and support our future projects. a loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected. our holding company structure may impact our stockholders ' ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. cash at our international operations is also subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize our board of directors (the board) to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit removal of directors for cause only; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the board. 65 table of contents in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders. "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" for a summary of the estimated impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs. from time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates; however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign currency payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. 50 table of contents international risks our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in countries outside the u.s. we are a u.s.-based natural resource company with substantial mining assets located outside of the u.s. (as of december 31, 2013 , substantially all of our oil and gas operations were in the u.s.). we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru, chile and the democratic republic of congo (drc). accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in countries outside the u.s., our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. risks of conducting business in countries outside of the u.s. include: renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts; expropriation or nationalization of property; changes in another country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, which because of rising "resource nationalism" in countries around the world, may impose increasingly onerous requirements on foreign operations and investment; political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; changes in the aspirations and expectations of local communities in which we operate with respect to our contributions to employee health and safety, infrastructure and community development and other factors that may affect our social license to operate, all of which lead to increased costs; foreign exchange controls; and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of an international court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. may be substantially affected by many unpredictable factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our international operations must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we operate. there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws. although we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of violations of such laws, any violation could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax matters with the indonesian and peruvian tax authorities (refer to note 12 for further discussion of these matters). other risks specific to certain countries in which we operate are discussed in more detail below. because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia. our mining operations in indonesia are conducted by our subsidiary pt freeport indonesia (pt-fi) pursuant to a contract of work (cow) with the indonesian government. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because of the significance of our indonesia operations to our business, and because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, 51 table of contents and the number of people employed, our indonesia operations have been the subject of political debates and of criticism in the indonesian press, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. in 2009, indonesia enacted a mining law (2009 mining law), which operates under a licensing system that is significantly less protective of licensees than the contract of work system that governs pt-fi. the 2009 mining law and the regulations issued pursuant to that law provide that contracts of work would continue to be honored until their expiration. however, the regulations, including those issued in january 2014, attempt to apply certain provisions of the 2009 mining law and regulations to existing contracts of work and seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work. in january 2012, the president of indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team of ministers to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 mining law and to take steps to assess and determine the indonesian government's position on reduction to the size of contract concessions, increasing government revenues and domestic processing of minerals. we have been engaged in discussions with officials of the indonesian government to complete this evaluation process and obtain an extension of the pt-fi cow beyond its primary term ending in 2021 to 2041, as provided under the terms of the cow, which can only be modified by mutual agreement between pt-fi and the indonesian government. we cannot predict the outcome of our engagement with the indonesian government regarding the relationship between the 2009 mining law and related regulations and our cow, nor whether or on what terms we will be able to secure an extension of our cow, but the outcome of these discussions may result in revisions to certain terms of the cow. in january 2014, the indonesian government published regulations providing that holders of contracts of work with existing processing facilities in indonesia may continue to export product through january 12, 2017, but established new requirements for the continued export of copper concentrates, including the imposition of a progressive export duty on copper concentrates in the amount of 25 percent in 2014, rising to 60 percent by mid-2016. pt-fi's cow authorizes it to export concentrates and specifies the taxes and other fiscal terms available to its operations. the cow states that pt-fi shall not be subject to taxes, duties or fees subsequently imposed or approved by the indonesian government except as expressly provided in the cow. additionally, pt-fi complied with the requirements of its cow for local processing by arranging for the construction and commissioning of indonesia's only copper smelter and refinery, which is owned and operated by pt smelting (pt-fi's 25 percent owned smelter). the january 2014 regulations conflict with pt-fi ' contractual rights under its cow. we are working with the indonesian government to clarify the situation and to defend pt-fi ' rights under its cow. pt-fi is also seeking to obtain the required administrative permits for 2014 exports, which have been delayed as a result of the new regulations. as of february 21, 2014, pt-fi has not obtained administrative approval for 2014 exports. pt-fi has implemented near-term changes to its operations to coordinate its concentrate production with pt smelting's operating plans. since mid-january 2014, pt-fi's milling rate has averaged approximately 112,000 metric tons of ore per day, which is approximately half of normal rates. pt-fi is engaging with the government of indonesia to reach a resolution that would enable pt-fi to resume normal operations as soon as possible. in the event that pt-fi is unable to resume normal operations for an extended period, we plan to consider further actions, including constraining operating costs, deferring capital expenditures and implementing workforce reductions. pt-fi may also be required to declare force majeure under its concentrate sales agreements. in april 2014, indonesia will hold elections for legislators at the national, provincial and district levels. the presidential election will be held in july 2014, with a run-off in september 2014, if required. the outcome of these elections could affect the country ' policies pertaining to foreign investment. indonesia has also faced separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. several separatist groups have sought political independence for the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located. in response, indonesia enacted regional autonomy laws, which became effective january 1, 2001. the manner in which those laws are being implemented and the degree of political and economic autonomy they may bring to individual provinces, including papua, remain uncertain and continue to be ongoing issues in indonesian politics. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our indonesian operations. 52 table of contents since july 2009 there have been 51 incidents in and around the grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which have resulted in 17 fatalities and 59 injuries. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt-fi continues to work with the indonesian government to address security issues. the investigation of these incidents is ongoing. we also continue to limit the use of the road leading to our mining and milling operations to secured convoys. any additional prolonged limitations on access to the road could adversely affect our indonesian operations. large numbers of illegal miners continue to operate along the river used to transport the tailings from the mill to pt-fi's government-approved tailings management area in the lowlands. the illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted unsuccessfully for years to move them away from our facilities. in 2006, the illegal miners temporarily blocked the road leading to the grasberg mine and mill in protest, and pt-fi temporarily suspended mining and milling operations as a precautionary measure. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our indonesian operations. if other disruptive incidents occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict at this time. for discussion of labor disruptions at pt-fi, refer to the operational risk factor "labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects." we will not mine all of our ore reserves in indonesia before the initial term of our cow expires. the initial term of pt-fi's cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and our current mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current cow. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 26 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2013 , representing 32 percent of pt-fi's share of recoverable copper reserves and 45 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve our cow extensions. for further discussion, refer to the above risk factor "because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia." pt-fi's cow may be subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel. pt-fi's cow was entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. the cow may be subject to termination by the indonesian government if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. certain indonesian laws and regulations may conflict with the mining rights established under the cow. although the cow grants to pt-fi the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the cow, government agencies may seek to impose additional restrictions on pt-fi that could affect exploration and operating requirements. for discussion of the regulations published in january 2014 by the indonesian government, which conflict with our cow, refer to the risk factor "because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia." at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the indonesian government prior to may 1998 ( i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt-fi's cow, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the cow will not be challenged for political or other reasons. pt-fi's cow requires that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. accordingly, if a dispute arises under the cow, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an 53 table of contents international arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of an international arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. additionally, our operations may be adversely affected while resolution of a dispute is pending. the tenke fungurume (tenke) minerals district is located in the katanga province of the drc, and may be adversely affected by security risks and political, economic and social instability in the drc. since gaining independence in 1960, the drc has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crises. these factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. as part of a review of all mining contracts by the ministry of mines (the ministry) in the drc, in february 2008, we received notification that the ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of tenke fungurume mining s.a.r.l.'s (tfm) mining contracts. in october 2010, the drc government concluded its review of tfm's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. in connection with the review, several amendments were made to tfm ' mining contracts and governing documents, and in march 2012, fcx's effective ownership in tfm was reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. political, economic, social and security risks in the drc are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business. these risks include legal and regulatory uncertainties; exposure to an environment of governmental corruption and bribery; attempts to increase taxes or claims for fees and penalties by governmental officials, including retroactive claims; administrative disputes; security risks resulting from political instability in the drc; and risk of loss because of civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. in addition to ongoing conflict in the eastern region of the drc, there have been acts of violence in the katanga province where the tenke minerals district is located. the safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority, and tfm works cooperatively with government officials to address security issues; however, no assurance can be given that conflict or random acts of violence will not occur near or impact tenke's operations. accordingly, our tenke operations and future development activities at the tenke minerals district may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could interrupt tfm ' operations or future development activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. operational risks our mining and oil and gas operations are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. mining . mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control, and many of which are not covered fully, or in some cases even partially, by insurance. these operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flow, include the following: earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; the occurrence of unexpected weather or operating conditions and other force majeure events; the failure of equipment or processes to operate in accordance with specifications, design or expectations; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines; interruption of energy supply; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; 54 table of contents metallurgical and other processing problems; unanticipated ground and water conditions; adverse claims to water rights, adverse outcomes of pending water adjudications and physical shortages of water to which we have legal rights; adjacent land ownership or usage that results in constraints on current or future mine operations; delays in the receipt of or failure to receive necessary government authorizations, approvals or permits; delays in transportation and disruptions of supply routes; and the inability to obtain satisfactory insurance coverage. managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations also presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks. we maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are monitored for structural stability and leakages; our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions; and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage. in indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors. the failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both in and around our areas of operations, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in or curtailments of production. oil and gas . our oil and gas operations are also subject to operating hazards, including well blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids and pipeline ruptures, as well as natural disasters such as earthquakes, mudslides and hurricanes. our operations in california, including transportation of oil by pipelines within the city and county of los angeles, are especially susceptible to damage from earthquakes and involve increased risks of personal injury, property damage and marketing interruptions because of the population density of southern california. our operations in the gulf of mexico (gom) and gulf coast region are particularly susceptible to interruption and damage from hurricanes. any of these operating hazards could cause personal injuries, fatalities, oil spills, discharge of hazardous substances into the air, soil, water and groundwater and other property or environmental damage, lost production and revenue, remediation and clean-up costs and liability for damages, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and may not be fully covered by our insurance. further, drilling, completing, and operating wells may also be delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected geologic conditions, increases in the cost of or shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and equipment, and delays in the issuance of required permits by governmental agencies. increased production costs could reduce our profitability and cash flows. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. for the year 2013, energy represented approximately 20 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. an inability to procure sufficient fuel and energy at reasonable prices could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our consolidated copper production costs are also affected by the prices of commodities we use in our operations, such as sulphuric acid, grinding media, steel, reagents, liners, tires and explosives. the prices of such commodities are influenced by supply and demand trends affecting the mining industry in general and other factors outside our control, and such prices are at times subject to volatile movements. increases in the costs of commodities that we consume or use may also significantly affect the capital costs of new projects. in our oil and gas operations, increased costs or unavailability of drilling rigs, workboats, experienced personnel, or other equipment, supplies or oil field services, which may occur particularly during times of increased industry activity, may adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget, and could have a material adverse effect on the financial performance of our oil and gas operations. 55 table of contents labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as further described in part i, items 1 and 2 "business and properties" we are party to labor agreements with various unions that represent employees at certain of our mining operations (none of the employees of our oil and gas operations are represented by a union or covered by a collective labor agreement). labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and the risk exists that labor agreements may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. issues that may be raised by the collective bargaining units representing our employees are unpredictable and, if raised, negotiations concerning those issues may not be concluded successfully. our production and sales volumes could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations adversely affected by significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. during 2011, pt-fi was adversely affected by labor disruptions, including an eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. the strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. additionally, during first-quarter 2012, pt-fi experienced work interruptions in connection with its efforts to resume normal operations and temporarily suspended operations. in october 2013, pt-fi entered into a new biennial labor agreement. in fourth-quarter 2011, there was an approximate two-month labor strike at cerro verde during the negotiation of a new labor agreement. the strike did not have a significant impact on production, and a new three-year agreement with the union was reached in late december 2011. in november 2013, cerro verde entered into a new four-year labor agreement with its union, which is effective upon the expiration of the current agreement, beginning september 1, 2014. as of december 31, 2013 , 49 percent of our labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements, and one percent of our labor force is covered by agreements that will expire during 2014 . if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies. our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. most of our mining operations in north and south america are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. at our north america mining operations, certain of our water supplies are supported by surface water rights, which allow us to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. in arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which the arizona courts have been attempting, for over 30 years, to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems, which affect four of our operating mines (morenci, safford, sierrita and miami). the legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our bagdad mine. groundwater has historically been treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. however, court decisions in one of the adjudications have concluded that groundwater pumping may affect surface water, thereby bringing the pumping within the jurisdiction of the general stream adjudications. the effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water remains contested, however, and is currently a primary focus of one of those adjudications. because groundwater accounts for approximately 40 percent of arizona ' water supplies, the re-characterization of any significant portion of that water as surface water could jeopardize the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us, to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a significant user of groundwater in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings. in colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority and administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the climax molybdenum mine. in new mexico, our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated. 56 table of contents water for our cerro verde mining operation in peru comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. due to occasional drought conditions and the possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our current and planned cerro verde operations. cerro verde completed studies to assess opportunities for additional water supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. cerro verde has reached agreements with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, the local water utility servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar), and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa. cerro verde has obtained authorization to reuse an annual average of one cubic meter per second of the treated water, which is expected to supplement existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion. water for our el abra mining operation in chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. el abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations; however, a change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our allowable groundwater pumping, which is permitted through 2021. el abra is conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the pacific ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing. water for our candelaria and ojos del salado mining operations in chile comes from a nearby wastewater treatment facility and our desalination plant and pipeline that were completed in 2013. both of these sources will supply candelaria's and ojos del salado ' long-term water needs. although each of our mining operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, some supplies are subject to unresolved claims by others, and additional supplies that may be needed to support expanded operations are expensive, in short supply, and can be difficult to access because of logistical and legal obstacles. moreover, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. loss of a water right, loss of continued use of a currently available water supply, or inability to expand our water resources could materially and adversely affect our mining operations, by significantly increasing the cost of water, forcing us to curtail operations, preventing us from expanding operations or forcing premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia operations involve additional risks because they are located on unusually difficult terrain in a very remote area. the grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. these conditions require us to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. in may 2013, a tragic accident, which resulted in 28 fatalities and 10 injuries, occurred at pt-fi when the rock structure above an underground ceiling for a training facility collapsed. while the accident occurred outside the area of mining operations, pt-fi temporarily suspended mining and processing activities at the grasberg complex to conduct inspections of its facilities in coordination with indonesian government authorities. following approval from indonesia's department of energy and mineral resources, pt-fi resumed open-pit mining and concentrating activities at its grasberg operations on june 24, 2013, and resumed underground operations on july 9, 2013. in april 2011, two pt-fi employees died in an accident when a portion of the doz underground mine experienced an uncontrolled muck flow. the area was temporarily shut down during the investigation of the accident. we have experienced mud/topsoil slides and slippages of material in and near our open-pit operations in the past, which have since october 2003 resulted in 11 fatalities and some production delays. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. 57 table of contents in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our africa mining operations involve additional risks because it is located in a remote area of the drc. the tenke minerals district is located in a remote area of the drc and is subject to additional challenges, including severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; challenges in obtaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria, cholera and hiv. additionally, because of limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the tenke mines approximately 1,900 miles to ports in south africa. the tenke minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. our reserves are estimates, and actual recoveries may vary significantly. there are numerous uncertainties and assumptions inherent in estimating mineral and oil and natural gas reserves, and geological, technical and economic assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available. assumptions and estimates include the geology of the ore body or reservoir, development methods to be used and projected operating costs. fluctuations in these variables and in commodities prices may result in lower grade reserves or resources being deemed uneconomic, and could lead to a reduction in reserves or resources. our actual recoveries may vary significantly from our estimated reserves. decreases in estimated reserves could result in prospective increases in our depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, and could also result in impairment charges. refer to notes 1, 20 and 21 and md&amp;a for further discussion. we must continually replace reserves depleted by production, but our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our existing mineral and oil and natural gas reserves will be depleted over time by production from our operations. because our profits are derived from our mining and oil and gas operations, our ability to replenish our reserves is essential to our long-term success. our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of additional deposits or reservoirs that can be produced profitably. we may not be able to discover, enhance, develop or acquire reserves in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow our current reserve levels, which could negatively affect our business and prospects. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects (refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of our current development projects). the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, estimated capital and operating costs, and estimated future prices of the relevant commodity. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines, wells, or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction or drilling schedules can adversely affect project economics. key factors that may affect the timing, costs and outcome of such projects include the following: geologic, geotechnical, hydrogeologic and weather conditions; hiring and training of personnel; issuance of necessary permits and licenses by governmental agencies; civil and political environment of the country or region in which the project is located; and access to or development of supporting infrastructure and availability of critical equipment. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. the actual costs, production rates and economic returns of our development projects may differ materially from our estimates, which may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 58 table of contents operations in the deepwater gom present greater operating risks than operations in the shallower waters or onshore. in addition, our shallow water and onshore operations that target ultra-deep prospects involve greater risks and costs than conventional gom shelf and onshore gulf coast prospects. the deepwater gom area presents significant challenges because of risks associated with geological complexity, water depth and higher drilling and development costs, any of which can cause substantial cost overruns. the deepwater gom also lacks the infrastructure present in shallower waters, which can result in significant delays in obtaining or maintaining production. as a result, deepwater operations may require significant time between a discovery and marketability, thereby increasing the financial risk of these operations. our inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous exploration prospects target formations below the salt weld on the gom shelf and onshore in south louisiana. these targets have not traditionally been the subject of exploratory activity in these regions, so that little direct comparative data is available. to date, there has been no production of hydrocarbons from inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous reservoirs in these areas. the lack of comparative data and the limitations of diagnostic tools operating in the extreme temperatures and pressures encountered at these depths make it difficult to predict reservoir quality and well performance of these formations. wells drilled in these formations are also significantly more expensive to drill and complete than wells drilled to more conventional depths. major contributors to such increased costs include far higher temperatures and pressures encountered down hole, longer drilling times and the cost and extended procurement time related to the specialized equipment required to drill and complete these types of wells. our operations are subject to extensive regulations, some of which require permits and other approvals. these regulations increase our costs and in some circumstances may delay or suspend our operations. our operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that are subject to change and to changing interpretation by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with broad supervisory authority. as a natural resource company, compliance with environmental legal requirements is an integral and costly part of our business. for additional information, see "environmental risks." we are also subject to extensive regulation of worker health and safety, including the requirements of the u.s. federal occupational safety and health act and similar laws of other jurisdictions. in the u.s., the operation of our mines is subject to regulation by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. msha inspects our mines on a regular basis and issues citations and orders when it believes a violation has occurred. if such inspections result in an alleged violation, we may be subject to fines and penalties and, in instances of alleged significant violations, our mining operations could be subject to temporary or extended closures. our oil and gas operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations that require, among other things, permits for the drilling and operation of wells and bonding and insurance to drill, operate and plug and abandon wells, and that regulate the safety of our pipelines. our u.s. offshore operations in federal waters are subject to broad regulation by the boem/bsee, which among other things must issue permits in connection with our exploration, drilling, development and production plans. under certain circumstances boem/bsee may impose penalties and may suspend or terminate any of our operations on federal leases. many other governmental bodies regulate our operations, and our failure to comply with these legal requirements can result in substantial penalties. in addition, new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations by courts or regulatory authorities occur regularly, but are difficult to predict. any such variations could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. certain of our undeveloped oil and gas leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. approximately 41 percent of our total u.s. net undeveloped acres are covered by leases that expire from 2014 to 2016. with respect to our undeveloped oil and gas leaseholds, unless production in paying quantities is established on units during the term of the leases, the leases will expire. if leases expire and we are unable to renew or obtain new leases, we will lose our right to develop those properties. our drilling plans are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals. refer to items 1. and 2. "business and properties" for further discussion of our oil and gas operations' acreage. 59 table of contents we have limited control over the development of oil and gas properties in which we have an interest but do not operate. certain of our oil and gas properties, including lucius, ram powell, lineham creek, haynesville and portions of our eagle ford acreage, are operated by other companies and involve third party working interest owners. as a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties. additionally, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the operating costs and capital expenditures of such projects. these limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for their operation and/or funding of these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs, result in lower production and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our business may be adversely affected by information technology disruptions. cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency, evolving in nature and include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks. however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. environmental risks our operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations. compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain our expansion opportunities. our operations, both in the u.s. and internationally, are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations governing the generation, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances, waste disposal, air emissions, water discharges, remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, including oil spill cleanup, mine closure and well plug and abandonment requirements, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. in addition, we must obtain regulatory permits and approvals to start, continue and expand operations. laws such as cercla and similar state laws may subject us to joint and several liability for environmental damages caused by previous owners or operators of properties we acquired or are currently operating or at sites where we sent materials for processing, recycling or disposal. as discussed in more detail in the next risk factor, we have substantial obligations for environmental remediation on mining properties previously owned or operated by freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc) and certain of its affiliates. some of our onshore california oil and gas fields have been in operation for more than 100 years, and current or future legal requirements may impose substantial expenditures to remediate the properties or to otherwise comply with these requirements. noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in material penalties or other liabilities. in addition, compliance with these laws may from time to time result in delays in or changes to our development or expansion plans. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. for example, under the clean air act, epa recently lowered the national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for sulfur dioxide. the area around our smelter in miami, arizona, has sulfur dioxide levels in excess of the new standard, and the smelter is the primary contributor to those levels. as a result, we are required to install pollution control equipment as part of an expansion that will allow the smelter to operate and comply with the new sulfur dioxide standard, but will increase our operating cost. in addition, in response to the 2010 deepwater horizon incident in the gom, the boem/bsee issued new guidelines and regulations regarding, among other things, environmental matters and decommissioning applicable to oil and gas drilling in the gom. these regulations require, among other things, independent third-party inspections, certification of well design and well control equipment and emergency response plans in the event of a blowout. 60 table of contents we also believe there has generally been more aggressive application of the endangered species act, resulting in increases in the number of protected species and expansive designations of their critical habitat, which may make obtaining federal permits and securing additional water resources more time-consuming, unpredictable and expensive. new or revised environmental legal requirements are frequently proposed, many of which result in substantially increased costs for our business. for example, epa has proposed rules that, if effective, would reclassify some mineral processing materials as "hazardous waste" under the federal resource conservation and recovery act, which would reverse long-standing epa regulatory determinations and subject the industry to significant new and costly waste management requirements. other regulation under consideration by environmental regulatory agencies include provisions that would impose additional restrictions on waterway discharges and land use, and regulate environmental impacts of radioactive materials associated with mining operations and expand regulation of solid wastes, among other things. adoption of these or similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs and constrain our expansion opportunities. during 2013, we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $595 million , compared with $612 million in 2012 and $387 million in 2011 . for 2014 , we expect to incur approximately $475 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation and plug and abandonment activities, the settlement of environmental matters and as actual spending occurs. we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on mining properties that have not been operated in many years. fmc and its subsidiaries, and many of their affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies fully understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for the clean up of hazardous substances released into the environment from properties owned or operated by them, including damages to natural resources, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other prior and subsequent owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the clean-up, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2013 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects (including damaged natural resource claims) in 28 u.s. states. in addition, fmc and certain affiliates and predecessor companies were parties to agreements relating to the transfer of businesses or properties, which contained indemnification provisions relating to environmental matters, and which from time to time become the source of claims against us. at december 31, 2013 , we had $1.2 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributed to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases involve events that occurred many decades ago; 61 table of contents our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. in addition, remediation standards for environmental media imposed by epa and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time and may become more stringent in the future. imposition of more stringent remediation standards poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. refer to note 12 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesian government, uses the unnavigable river system in the highlands near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. from time to time, certain indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than the river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. in connection with obtaining our environmental approvals from the indonesian government, we committed to perform a one-time environmental risk assessment on the impacts of our tailings management plan. we completed this extensive environmental risk assessment with more than 90 scientific studies conducted over four years and submitted it to the indonesian government in december 2002. we developed the risk assessment study using internationally recognized methods with input from an independent review panel, which included representatives from the indonesian government, academia and non-governmental organizations. the risks identified during this process were consistent with our impact projections of the tailings management program contained in our environmental approval documents. since 2005, pt-fi has participated in the indonesian government's proper (program for pollution control, evaluation and rating) program. pt-fi received a blue rating for the last proper audit by the indonesian ministry of environment. that audit was conducted in 2010, and the blue rating indicated that pt-fi's environmental management practices were in compliance with the laws and regulations of indonesia. since then, as allowed under environmental law 4/2009, the indonesian ministry of environment has continued to audit pt-fi but not using the 62 table of contents proper protocol, which has proven to be impractical for the size of the pt-fi operation. there have been no compliance issues, and the latest audit was in fourth-quarter 2013. mine closure regulations impose substantial costs on our operations. we also have plugging and abandonment obligations relating to our oil and gas operations. our u.s. mining operations are subject to various federal and state permitting requirements that include mine closure and mined-land reclamation obligations. these requirements are complex and vary depending upon the jurisdiction. the laws govern the determination of the scope and cost of the closure and reclamation obligations and the amount and forms of financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to meet the obligations of those plans if we are unable to do so. in general, our u.s. mines are required to review estimated closure and reclamation costs on either a periodic basis or at the time of significant permit modifications and to post increasing amounts of financial assurance as required by state regulators. it is uncertain how potential epa requirements for financial assurance will affect the timing of periodic closure cost reviews or the scope of closure activities. in july 2011, the chilean senate passed legislation regulating mine closure, which established new requirements for closure plans and became effective in november 2012. our chilean operations are required to update closure plans and provide financial assurance for these obligations. revised closure plans for the chilean mine sites are due in november 2014. cerro verde is subject to regulation under the mine closure law administered by the peruvian ministry of energy and mines. under the closure regulations, mines must submit a closure plan that includes the reclamation methods, closure cost estimates, methods of control and verification, closure and post-closure plans and financial assurance. an updated closure plan for the cerro verde mine expansion was submitted to the peruvian ministry of energy and mines in november 2013. in december 2009, pt-fi submitted its revised mine closure plan to the department of energy and mineral resources for review and has addressed comments received during the course of this review process. in december 2010, the president of indonesia issued a regulation regarding mine reclamation and closure, which requires a company to provide a mine closure guarantee in the form of a time deposit placed in a state-owned bank in indonesia. in accordance with its cow, pt-fi is working with the department of energy and mineral resources to review these requirements, including discussions of other options for the mine closure guarantee. we cannot predict at this time the cost of these mine closure plans or the levels or forms of financial assurance that may be required, which amounts could be substantial. additionally, substantially all of our oil and gas leases require that, upon termination of economic production, the working interest owners plug and abandon non-producing wellbores, remove equipment and facilities from leased acreage and restore land in accordance with applicable local, state and federal laws. at december 31, 2013 , we had asset retirement obligations (aros) of $2.3 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet, which included $1.1 billion for our oil and gas operations. aro cost estimates may increase or decrease significantly in the future as a result of changes in closure regulations, changes in engineering designs and technology, permit modifications or updates, changes in mine plans, inflation or other factors and as actual reclamation spending occurs. refer to note 12 for further discussion. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations and markets. many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, contribute to climate change. carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, and our revenues include significant sales of oil, ngls and gas, and other carbon-based energy products. a number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory initiatives designed to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. many u.s. states have taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. for example, in california, the california air resources board (carb) has developed "cap and trade" regulations pursuant to the california global warming solutions act of 2006 intended to achieve an overall reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels, a 15 percent reduction by 2020. some of our operations in california are subject to these regulations, which require us to purchase offsets and allowance instruments ( i.e., 63 table of contents equivalent units equal to one metric ton of emissions under the california global warming solutions act of 2006). the total amount of instruments we must purchase will vary annually. while we do not expect these costs to be material, similar or more onerous state regulations could substantially increase our costs. in june 2010, the epa issued final regulations under the clean air act for the control of greenhouse gases from new large stationary sources and major modifications to existing large stationary sources. this and other federal greenhouse gas regulations have been challenged in judicial proceedings. certain of our operations, including the miami smelter, could be materially affected by these regulations if plant emissions exceed applicable thresholds. in addition, anticipated future epa regulations covering large fossil fuel fired power plants may materially increase energy costs at our operations. the u.s. may also become a party to international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to new regulations affecting our u.s. operations. from a medium and long-term perspective, we may experience increased costs relating to our greenhouse gas emissions as a result of regulatory initiatives in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. in addition, the cost of electricity that we purchase from others may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their greenhouse gas emissions. although we have modeled different scenarios, we cannot predict the magnitude of increased costs with any certainty given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many countries in which we operate. increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may also reduce demand for the oil and gas we produce. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. these may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperatures. these effects may adversely affect the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. proposed federal, state or local regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could increase our oil and gas operating and capital costs. our oil and gas operations utilize hydraulic fracturing and other types of well stimulation. hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate the flow of oil and gas. hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of oil and gas from many reservoirs, especially shale formations such as the haynesville and eagle ford shale plays. the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions and agencies, and continues to receive significant regulatory and legislative attention at the federal, state, and local levels. several proposals are before the u.s. congress that, if implemented, would either prohibit or restrict the practice of hydraulic fracturing or subject the process to more extensive regulations. several states have adopted or are considering legislation to regulate hydraulic fracturing practices that could impose more stringent permitting, transparency, and well construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. in addition, some municipalities have significantly limited or prohibited drilling activities and/or hydraulic fracturing, or are considering doing so. although it is not possible to predict the final outcome of any legislation regarding hydraulic fracturing, any new federal, state or local restrictions on hydraulic fracturing, including those related to use of land and water, that are enacted in areas where we conduct our oil and gas operations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. other risks unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation or with respect to other contingencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are a party to the litigation and subject to other contingencies, including those described in note 12 and in item 3. "legal proceedings" involving such matters as asbestos exposure cases, disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites, claims of personal injury and property damage arising from environmental contamination, disputes over water rights, disputes over taxes and other disputes with regulatory authorities. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. if any of these disputes results in a substantial 64 table of contents monetary judgment against us or is settled on unfavorable terms, or otherwise affects our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. a negative outcome in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of any of these employees could adversely affect our business. our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees. achieving this objective may be difficult because of many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees to maintain our current business and support our future projects. a loss of such personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected. our holding company structure may impact our stockholders ' ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. cash at our international operations is also subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize our board of directors (the board) to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit removal of directors for cause only; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the board. 65 table of contents in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders. item 1b. unresolved staff comments. not applicable. item 3. legal proceedings. we are involved in numerous legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues arising from legacy operations conducted over the years by freeport-mcmoran corporation (fmc) and its affiliates. we are also involved periodically in inquiries, investigations and other proceedings initiated by or involving government agencies, some of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. management does not believe, based on currently available information, that the outcome of any legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition; although individual outcomes could be material to our operating results for a particular period, depending on the nature and magnitude of the outcome and the operating results for the period. below is a discussion of our material water rights legal proceedings. refer to note 12 for discussion of our other material legal proceedings. water rights our operations in the western united states (u.s.) require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. continuous operation of our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. in the arid western u.s., water rights are often contested, and disputes over water rights are generally time-consuming, expensive and not necessarily dispositive unless they resolve both actual and potential claims. the loss of a water right, loss of continued use of a currently available water supply, or inability to expand our water resources could materially and adversely affect our mining operations by significantly increasing the cost of water, forcing us to curtail operations, preventing us from expanding operations or forcing premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs and foregoing profitable operations. at our north america operations, certain of our water supplies are supported by surface water rights, which give us the right to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. in arizona, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which, for over 30 years, the arizona courts have been attempting to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems, which affect four of our operating mines (morenci, safford, sierrita and miami). the legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our bagdad mine. groundwater has historically been treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which has generally allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. however, court decisions in one of the adjudications have concluded that groundwater pumping may affect surface water, thereby bringing the pumping within the jurisdiction of the general stream adjudications. the effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water remains contested, however, and is currently the principal focus of one of those adjudications. because groundwater accounts for approximately 40 percent of arizona's water supplies, the re-characterization of any significant portion of that water as surface water could jeopardize the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us, to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a significant user of groundwater in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings. in re the general adjudication of all rights to use water in the little colorado water system and sources , apache county, superior court, no. 6417, filed on or about february 17, 1978. the principal parties, in addition to us, include: the state of arizona; the salt river project; the arizona public service company; the navajo nation, the hopi indian tribe; the san juan southern paiute tribe; and the u.s. on behalf of those tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the white mountain apache tribe. this case involves adjudication of water rights claims, including federal claims, in the little colorado watershed. 66 table of contents in re the general adjudication of all rights to use water in the gila river system and sources , maricopa county, superior court, cause nos. w-1 (salt), w-2 (verde), w-3 (upper gila), and w-4 (san pedro). this case was originally initiated in 1974 with the filing of a petition with the arizona state land department and was consolidated and transferred to the maricopa county superior court in 1981. the principal parties, in addition to us, include: the state of arizona; the gila valley irrigation district; the franklin irrigation district; the san carlos irrigation and drainage district; the salt river project; the san carlos apache tribe; the gila river indian community (gric); and the u.s. on behalf of those tribes, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the white mountain apache tribe, the fort mcdowell mohave-apache indian community, the salt river pima-maricopa indian community, and the payson community of yavapai apache indians. prior to january 1, 1983, various indian tribes filed suits in the u.s. district court in arizona claiming superior rights to water being used by many other water users, including us, and claiming damages for prior use in derogation of their allegedly superior rights. these federal proceedings have been stayed pending the arizona superior court adjudications. the maricopa county superior court issued a decision in 2005 in the gila river adjudication that directed the arizona department of water resources (adwr) to prepare detailed recommendations regarding the delineation of the sub-flow zone of the san pedro river basin, a tributary of the gila river. according to the court, the sub-flow zone is the subsurface area adjacent to the river where the court may find that groundwater is connected to the surface water such that groundwater pumping may reduce surface flows. although we have minimal interests in the san pedro river basin, a decision that re-characterizes groundwater in that basin as surface water may set a precedent for other river systems in arizona that could have material implications for many commercial, industrial, municipal and agricultural users of groundwater, including our arizona operations. adwr produced its recommendations in june 2009, and those recommendations were objected to by numerous parties on both sides of the issue. adwr responded to those objections in january 2011. following a three-day hearing held in late january 2012, at which various parties provided testimony and oral argument regarding the strengths and weaknesses of adwr's technical approach to characterizing underground flows as groundwater or surface water, the court directed adwr to submit a further report detailing the additional work it deemed necessary to properly delineate the san pedro river basin subflow zone. on october 12, 2012, the court issued an order instructing adwr to conduct additional technical work and issue revised subflow zone maps for the san pedro river basin. on october 17, 2012, the arizona supreme court announced the appointment of a replacement for the judge who had presided over the case for more than 10 years as a result of his appointment to the federal bankruptcy court. the new presiding judge is the fourth judge to preside over the case since its inception almost 40 years ago. on january 10, 2013, the new presiding judge heard oral arguments regarding the additional work to be performed by adwr in order to develop revised subflow zone maps for the san pedro river basin and issued an order instructing adwr to complete additional technical work and submit a new report by april 1, 2014. given the legal and technical complexity of this adjudication, its long history, and its long-term legal, economic and political implications, it is difficult to predict the timing or the outcome of this issue or of the overall adjudication. if we are unable to satisfactorily resolve the issues being addressed in this adjudication, our ability to pump groundwater could be diminished or curtailed, and our operations at morenci, safford, sierrita, miami and bagdad could be adversely affected. as part of the gila river adjudication, the u.s. has asserted numerous claims for federal non-indian reserved water rights throughout arizona. these claims are based on reservations of federal land for specific purposes (e.g., national parks, military bases, and wilderness areas). unlike state law-based water rights, federal reserved water rights are not based on a history of beneficial use of specific amounts of water. instead, these rights are given priority in the prior appropriation system based on the date the land was reserved, not the date that water was first used on the land. as a result, these water rights can be very disruptive to existing state law-based water rights and uses, particularly groundwater uses, which are not assigned a priority date under state law. because federal reserved water rights are not quantified, the task of determining how much water each federal reservation may use has been left to the gila river adjudication court. several contested cases to quantify reserved water rights for particular federal reservations are currently pending in the adjudication. in multiple instances, the u.s. asserts a right to all water in a particular watershed that was not appropriated prior to the reservation. this creates risks for both surface water users and groundwater users because such claims can severely impede current and future uses of water within the same watershed. 67 table of contents federal reserved rights present additional risks to water users aside from the significant quantities of water claimed by the u.s. of particular significance, federal reserved rights enjoy greater protection from groundwater pumping than is accorded to state law-based water rights. this means that the existence of a federal reserved right may threaten a groundwater user's ability to continue pumping groundwater under circumstances in which a state law-based right may pose no risk. because there are numerous federal reservations in watersheds across arizona, the reserved water right claims of the u.s. pose a significant risk to multiple operations, including morenci and safford in the upper gila river watershed, sierrita in the santa cruz watershed, and bagdad in the bill williams river watershed. although the bill williams watershed is not part of the gila river adjudication, decisions made in the gila river adjudication may be asserted as precedents for similar federal claims in the bill williams watershed. because federal reserved water rights may adversely affect water uses at each of these operations, we have been actively involved in litigation over these claims. item 4. mine safety disclosures. the safety and health of all employees is our highest priority. management believes that safety and health considerations are integral to, and compatible with, all other functions in the organization and that proper safety and health management will enhance production and reduce costs. our approach towards the health and safety of our workforce is to continuously improve performance through implementing robust management systems and providing adequate training, safety incentive and occupational health programs. our objective is zero work place injuries and occupational illnesses. we measure progress toward achieving our objective against regularly established benchmarks, including measuring company-wide total recordable incident rates (trir). during 2013, our trir (including contractors) was 0.74 per 200,000 man-hours worked, compared to the preliminary metal mining sector industry average reported by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) for 2013 of 2.35 per 200,000 man-hours worked. our trir (including contractors) was 0.58 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2012 and 0.61 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2011 , compared to msha's metal mining sector industry average of 2.25 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2012 and 2.29 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 2011 . refer to exhibit 95.1 for mine safety disclosures required in accordance with section 1503(a) of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and item 104 of regulation s-k. executive officers of the registrant. certain information as of february 14, 2014 , about our executive officers is set forth in the following table and accompanying text: name age position or office james r. moffett 75 chairman of the board richard c. adkerson 67 director, vice chairman, and fcx president and chief executive officer james c. flores 54 director, vice chairman, and fm o&amp;g president and chief executive officer michael j. arnold 61 executive vice president and chief administrative officer kathleen l. quirk 50 executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer james r. moffett has served as chairman of the board since may 1992. mr. moffett previously served as the chief executive officer from july 1995 until december 2003. he served as co-chairman of the board of mcmoran exploration co. (mmr) from september 1998, and president and chief executive officer from may 2010 until fcx's acquisition of mmr in 2013. richard c. adkerson has served as vice chairman since june 2013, president since january 2008 and also from april 1997 to march 2007, chief executive officer since december 2003 and a director since october 2006. mr. adkerson previously served as chief financial officer from october 2000 to december 2003. mr. adkerson served as co-chairman of the board of mmr from september 1998 until fcx's acquisition of mmr in 2013. james c. flores has served as vice chairman, and fm o&amp;g president and chief executive officer since june 2013. mr. flores previously served as chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer of plains exploration &amp; production company (pxp) from september 2002 until fcx's acquisition of pxp in 2013. 68 table of contents michael j. arnold has served as executive vice president since march 2007 and chief administrative officer since december 2003. kathleen l. quirk has served as executive vice president since march 2007, chief financial officer since december 2003 and treasurer since february 2000. ms. quirk previously served as senior vice president from december 2003 to march 2007. ms. quirk served as the senior vice president of mmr from april 2002 and as treasurer from january 2000 until fcx's acquisition of mmr in 2013. part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities. unregistered sales of equity securities none. common stock our common shares trade on the new york stock exchange (nyse) under the symbol fcx. the fcx share price is reported daily in the financial press under fmcg in most listings of nyse securities. the table below shows the nyse composite tape common share price ranges during 2013 and 2012 : 2013 2012 high low high low first quarter $36.26 $30.72 $48.96 $36.76 second quarter $34.00 $26.37 $39.43 $31.16 third quarter $34.99 $26.95 $43.65 $31.08 fourth quarter $38.00 $32.34 $42.89 $30.54 at february 14, 2014 , there were 15,753 holders of record of our common stock. common stock dividends the declaration of dividends is at the discretion of the fcx board of directors (the board) and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the board. in february 2012, the board authorized an increase in the cash dividend on our common stock to the current annual rate of $1.25 per share ($0.3125 per share quarterly). the board also authorized a supplemental common stock dividend of $1.00 per share that was paid in july 2013. below is a summary of dividends on fcx common stock for 2013 and 2012 : 2013 per share amount record date payment date first quarter $0.3125 01/15/2013 02/01/2013 second quarter $0.3125 04/15/2013 05/01/2013 supplemental dividend $1.0000 06/14/2013 07/01/2013 third quarter $0.3125 07/15/2013 08/01/2013 fourth quarter $0.3125 10/15/2013 11/01/2013 2012 per share amount record date payment date first quarter $0.2500 01/13/2012 02/01/2012 second quarter $0.3125 04/13/2012 05/01/2012 third quarter $0.3125 07/13/2012 08/01/2012 fourth quarter $0.3125 10/15/2012 11/01/2012 69 table of contents on december 20, 2013, the board declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.3125 per share, which was paid on february 3, 2014, to common stockholders of record at the close of business on january 15, 2014. issuer purchases of equity securities the following table sets forth information with respect to shares of fcx common stock purchased by us during the three months ended december 31, 2013: period (a) total number of shares purchased (b) average price paid per share (c) total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs a (d) maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs a october 1-31, 2013 $ 23,685,500 november 1-30, 2013 23,685,500 december 1-31, 2013 23,685,500 total 23,685,500 a. on july 21, 2008, the board approved an increase in our open-market share purchase program for up to 30 million shares. the program does not have an expiration date. 70 table of contents item 6. selected financial data. freeport-mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. selected financial and operating data years ended december 31, 2013 a 2012 2011 2010 2009 fcx consolidated financial data (in millions, except per share amounts) revenues $ 20,921 b $ 18,010 $ 20,880 $ 18,982 $ 15,040 operating income 5,351 b,c,d,e 5,814 c,d,e 9,140 e 9,068 6,503 net income 3,441 3,980 5,747 5,544 3,534 net income attributable to fcx common stockholders 2,658 b,c,d,e,f,g 3,041 c,d,e,f,h 4,560 e,f,h 4,273 f 2,527 f basic net income per share attributable to fcx common stockholders $ 2.65 $ 3.20 $ 4.81 $ 4.67 $ 3.05 basic weighted-average common shares outstanding 1,002 949 947 915 829 diluted net income per share attributable to fcx common stockholders $ 2.64 b,c,d,e,f,g $ 3.19 c,d,e,f,h $ 4.78 e,f,h $ 4.57 f $ 2.93 f diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding 1,006 954 955 949 938 dividends declared per share of common stock $ 2.25 $ 1.25 $ 1.50 $ 1.125 $ 0.075 operating cash flows i 6,139 3,774 6,620 6,273 4,397 capital expenditures 5,286 3,494 2,534 1,412 1,587 at december 31: cash and cash equivalents $ 1,985 $ 3,705 $ 4,822 $ 3,738 $ 2,656 property, plant, equipment and mining development costs, net 24,042 20,999 18,449 16,785 16,195 oil and gas properties, net 23,359 goodwill 1,916 total assets 63,473 35,440 32,070 29,386 25,996 total debt, including current portion 20,706 3,527 3,537 4,755 6,346 redeemable noncontrolling interest 716 total fcx stockholders' equity 20,934 17,543 15,642 12,504 9,119 the selected consolidated financial data shown above is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. these historical results are not necessarily indicative of results that you can expect for any future period. you should read this data in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in this annual report. a. includes the results of fcx oil &amp; gas inc. (fm o&amp;g) beginning june 1, 2013. b. includes charges for net unrealized and noncash realized losses on crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts totaling $312 million ( $194 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.19 per share) for the seven-month period from june 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013. c. includes transaction and related costs principally associated with our oil and gas acquisitions totaling $80 million ( $50 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.05 per share) in 2013 and $9 million ( $7 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) in 2012. d. the year 2013 includes charges of (i) $76 million ( $49 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.05 per share) associated with updated mine plans at morenci that resulted in a loss of recoverable copper in leach stockpiles and (ii) $37 million ( $23 million to net income attributable to common stockholders of $0.02 per share) for restructuring an executive employment arrangement. the year 2012 includes a gain of $59 million ( $31 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.03 per share) for the settlement of the insurance claim for business interruption and property damage relating to the 2011 incidents affecting pt freeport indonesia's (pt-fi) concentrate pipelines. e. includes charges associated with labor agreements totaling $36 million ( $13 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) at cerro verde in 2013, $16 million ( $8 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) at candelaria in 2012 and $116 million ( $50 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.05 per share) at pt-fi, cerro verde and el abra in 2011. f. includes net losses on early extinguishment and conversion of debt totaling $28 million ( $0.03 per share) in 2013 , $149 million ( $0.16 per share) in 2012, $60 million ( $0.06 per share) in 2011, $71 million ($0.07 per share) in 2010 and $43 million ($0.04 per share) in 2009. g. includes gains associated with our oil and gas acquisitions, including (i) $128 million ($0.13 per share) primarily related to our preferred stock investments in and the subsequent acquisition of mcmoran exploration co., and (ii) a net tax credit of $199 million ( $0.20 per share) associated with net reductions in our deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax asset valuation allowances. h. includes a net tax credit of $98 million , net of noncontrolling interests ( $0.11 per share), in 2012 associated with adjustments to cerro verde's deferred income taxes, and a tax charge of $49 million , net of noncontrolling interests ( $0.05 per share), in 2011 for additional taxes associated with cerro verde's election to pay a special mining burden during the remaining term of its 1998 stability agreement. i. net of working capital uses and changes in other tax payments totaling $377 million in 2013 , $1.4 billion in 2012 , $461 million in 2011, $834 million in 2010 and $770 million in 2009. 71 table of contents freeport-mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. selected financial and operating data (continued) years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 fcx consolidated mining operating data copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 4,131 3,663 3,691 3,908 4,103 production (thousands of metric tons) 1,874 1,662 1,674 1,773 1,861 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 4,086 3,648 3,698 3,896 4,111 sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 1,853 1,655 1,678 1,767 1,865 average realized price per pound $ 3.30 $ 3.60 $ 3.86 $ 3.59 $ 2.60 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 1,250 958 1,383 1,886 2,664 sales, excluding purchases 1,204 1,010 1,378 1,863 2,639 average realized price per ounce $ 1,315 $ 1,665 $ 1,583 $ 1,271 $ 993 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production 94 85 83 72 54 sales, excluding purchases 93 83 79 67 58 average realized price per pound $ 11.85 $ 14.26 $ 16.98 $ 16.47 $ 12.36 north america copper mines operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 1,431 1,363 1,258 1,067 1,147 production (thousands of metric tons) 649 618 571 484 520 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 1,422 1,351 1,247 1,085 1,187 sales, excluding purchases (thousands of metric tons) 645 613 566 492 538 average realized price per pound $ 3.36 $ 3.64 $ 3.99 $ 3.42 $ 2.38 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production 32 36 35 25 25 100% operating data solution extraction/electrowinning (sx/ew) operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 1,003,500 998,600 888,300 648,800 589,400 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.22 0.22 0.24 0.24 0.29 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 889 866 801 746 859 mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 246,500 239,600 222,800 189,200 169,900 average ore grade (percent): copper 0.39 0.37 0.38 0.32 0.33 molybdenum 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.02 copper recovery rate (percent) 85.3 83.9 83.1 83.0 86.0 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 642 592 549 398 364 south america mining copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 1,323 1,257 1,306 1,354 1,390 production (thousands of metric tons) 600 570 592 614 631 sales (millions of pounds) 1,325 1,245 1,322 1,335 1,394 sales (thousands of metric tons) 601 565 600 606 632 average realized price per pound $ 3.30 $ 3.58 $ 3.77 $ 3.68 $ 2.70 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 101 83 101 93 92 sales 102 82 101 93 90 average realized price per ounce $ 1,350 $ 1,673 $ 1,580 $ 1,263 $ 982 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production 13 8 10 7 2 sx/ew operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 274,600 229,300 245,200 268,800 258,200 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.50 0.55 0.50 0.41 0.45 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 448 457 439 504 565 mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 192,600 191,400 189,200 188,800 181,300 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.65 0.60 0.66 0.65 0.66 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.12 0.10 0.12 0.10 0.10 molybdenum (percent) 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 copper recovery rate (percent) 90.9 90.1 89.6 90.0 88.9 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 875 800 867 850 825 72 table of contents freeport-mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. selected financial and operating data (continued) years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 indonesia mining operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 915 695 846 1,222 1,412 production (thousands of metric tons) 415 315 384 554 640 sales (millions of pounds) 885 716 846 1,214 1,400 sales (thousands of metric tons) 401 325 384 551 635 average realized price per pound $ 3.28 $ 3.58 $ 3.85 $ 3.69 $ 2.65 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 1,142 862 1,272 1,786 2,568 sales 1,096 915 1,270 1,765 2,543 average realized price per ounce $ 1,312 $ 1,664 $ 1,583 $ 1,271 $ 994 100% operating data ore milled (metric tons per day): a grasberg open pit 127,700 118,800 112,900 149,800 166,300 deep ore zone underground mine 49,400 44,600 51,700 79,600 72,000 big gossan underground mine 2,100 1,600 1,500 800 total 179,200 165,000 166,100 230,200 238,300 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.76 0.62 0.79 0.85 0.98 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.69 0.59 0.93 0.90 1.30 recovery rates (percent): copper 90.0 88.7 88.3 88.9 90.6 gold 80.0 75.7 81.2 81.7 83.7 production (recoverable): copper (millions of pounds) 928 695 882 1,330 1,641 gold (thousands of ounces) 1,142 862 1,444 1,964 2,984 africa mining copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 462 348 281 265 154 b production (thousands of metric tons) 210 158 127 120 70 b sales (millions of pounds) 454 336 283 262 130 b sales (thousands of metric tons) 206 152 128 119 59 b average realized price per pound $ 3.21 $ 3.51 $ 3.74 $ 3.45 $ 2.85 b cobalt (millions of contained pounds) production 28 26 25 20 sales 25 25 25 20 average realized price per pound $ 8.02 $ 7.83 $ 9.99 $ 10.95 ore milled (metric tons per day) 14,900 13,000 11,100 10,300 7,300 b average ore grade (percent): copper 4.22 3.62 3.41 3.51 3.69 b cobalt 0.37 0.37 0.40 0.40 copper recovery rate (percent) 91.4 92.4 92.5 91.4 92.1 b molybdenum mines molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 49 c 41 c 38 40 27 ore milled (metric tons per day) d 35,700 20,800 22,300 22,900 14,900 average molybdenum ore grade (percent) d 0.19 0.23 0.24 0.25 0.25 oil and gas operations e sales volumes: oil (million barrels) 26.6 natural gas (billion cubic feet) 54.2 natural gas liquids (ngls) (million barrels) 2.4 million barrels of oil equivalents (mmboe) 38.1 average realizations: oil (per barrel) $ 98.32 natural gas (per million british thermal units) $ 3.99 ngls (per barrel) $ 38.20 a. represents the approximate average daily throughput processed at pt-fi's mill facilities from each producing mine. b. copper production began in march 2009. c. includes production from the climax molybdenum mine, which began commercial operations in may 2012. d. the 2013 period reflects operating data for the henderson and climax mines; the prior periods reflect operating data of only the henderson mine. e. represents the results of fm o&amp;g beginning june 1, 2013. 73 table of contents ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculation, earnings consist of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, equity in affiliated companies' net earnings, cumulative effect of accounting changes and fixed charges. fixed charges include interest and that portion of rent deemed representative of interest. for the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends calculation, we assumed that our preferred stock dividend requirements were equal to the pre-tax earnings that would be required to cover those dividend requirements. we computed those pre-tax earnings using the effective tax rate for each year. our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was as follows for the years presented: years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 ratio of earnings to fixed charges 7.4x 19.8x 20.7x 16.3x 9.3x ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends 7.4x 19.8x 20.7x 13.9x 6.1x 74 table of contents items 7. and 7a. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, we, us and our refer to freeport-mcmoran copper &amp; gold inc. (fcx) and its consolidated subsidiaries. the results of operations reported and summarized below are not necessarily indicative of future operating results (refer to cautionary statement for further discussion). in particular, the financial results for the year ended 2013 include the results of fcx oil &amp; gas inc. (fm o&amp;g) only since june 1, 2013. references to notes are notes included in our notes to consolidated financial statements. throughout management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, all references to earnings or losses per share are on a diluted basis, unless otherwise noted. overview in 2013, we completed the acquisitions of plains exploration &amp; production company (pxp) and mcmoran exploration co. (mmr). refer to note 2 for further discussion of these acquisitions, including a summary of the preliminary purchase price allocations. with these acquisitions, we are a premier u.s.-based natural resource company with an industry leading global portfolio of mineral assets, significant oil and natural gas resources and a growing production profile. we are the world's largest publicly traded copper producer. our portfolio of assets includes the grasberg minerals district in indonesia, one of the world's largest copper and gold deposits, significant mining operations in north and south america, the tenke fungurume (tenke) minerals district in the democratic republic of congo (drc) in africa and significant oil and natural gas assets in north america, including reserves in the deepwater gulf of mexico (gom), onshore and offshore california and in the eagle ford shale play in texas, in the haynesville shale play in louisiana, in the madden area in central wyoming, and an industry-leading position in the emerging shallow-water inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend on the shelf of the gom and onshore in south louisiana (previously referred to as the ultra-deep gas trend). we have significant mineral reserves, resources and future development opportunities within our portfolio of mining assets. at december 31, 2013 , our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves totaled 111.2 billion pounds of copper, 31.3 million ounces of gold and 3.26 billion pounds of molybdenum, which were determined using long-term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. refer to critical accounting estimates mineral reserves for further discussion. a summary of the sources of our consolidated copper, gold and molybdenum production for the year 2013 by geographic location follows: copper gold molybdenum north america 35% 1% 86% a south america 32% 8% 14% indonesia 22% 91% africa 11% 100% 100% 100% a. for 2013 , 60 percent of our consolidated molybdenum production in north america was from the henderson and climax primary molybdenum mines. copper production from the grasberg, morenci and cerro verde mines totaled 49 percent of our consolidated copper production in 2013 . during 2013, we completed our second phase expansion project at tenke. we also advanced construction on the morenci mill expansion, with startup expected in the first half of 2014, and commenced construction on the cerro verde mill expansion, with completion expected in 2016. these projects are expected to significantly increase our minerals production in future periods. refer to operations for further discussion of our mining operations. our oil and gas business has significant proved, probable and possible reserves with financially attractive organic growth opportunities. our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves at december 31, 2013 , totaled 464 million barrels of oil equivalents (mmboe), with 80 percent comprised of oil (including natural gas liquids, or ngls). our portfolio includes a broad range of development opportunities and high-potential exploration prospects. for the seven-month period following the acquisition date, our oil and gas sales volumes totaled 38.1 mmboe, including 75 table of contents 26.6 million barrels (mmbbls) of crude oil, 54.2 billion cubic feet (bcf) of natural gas and 2.4 mmbbls of ngls. refer to operations for further discussion of our oil and gas operations and to critical accounting estimates oil and natural gas reserves for further discussion of our reserves. our results for 2013 , compared with 2012, primarily benefited from higher copper and gold sales volumes, partly offset by lower metals price realizations, and include the results of fm o&amp;g beginning june 1, 2013. refer to consolidated results for discussion of items impacting our consolidated results for the three years ended december 31, 2013 . at december 31, 2013 , we had $2.0 billion in consolidated cash and cash equivalents and $20.7 billion in total debt, including $10.5 billion of acquisition-related debt and $6.7 billion of debt assumed in connection with the oil and gas acquisitions. refer to note 8 and "capital resources and liquidity" for further discussion. at current copper and crude oil prices, we expect to produce significant operating cash flows, and to use our cash to invest in our development projects, reduce debt and return cash to shareholders through dividends on our common stock. outlook we view the long-term outlook for our business positively, supported by limitations on supplies of copper and oil and by the requirements for copper and oil in the world's economy. our financial results vary as a result of fluctuations in market prices primarily for copper, gold, molybdenum and oil, as well as other factors. world market prices for these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. because we cannot control the price of our products, the key measures that management focuses on in operating our business are sales volumes, unit net cash costs for our mining operations, cash production costs per boe for our oil and gas operations and consolidated operating cash flow. the outlook for each of these measures follows. sales volumes. following are our projected consolidated sales volumes for 2014 and actual consolidated sales volumes for 2013 : 2014 2013 (projected) (actual) copper (millions of recoverable pounds): north america copper mines 1,725 1,422 south america mining 1,190 1,325 indonesia mining 1,070 885 africa mining 445 454 4,430 4,086 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces): indonesia mining 1,650 1,096 north and south america mining 100 108 1,750 1,204 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) 95 a 93 oil equivalents (mmboe) 60.7 38.1 b a. projected molybdenum sales include 48 million pounds produced at our molybdenum mines and 47 million pounds produced at our north and south america copper mines. b. reflects sales of oil and gas for the seven-month period june 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013. projected sales volumes are dependent on a number of factors, including operational performance and other factors. in january 2014, the indonesian government published regulations providing that holders of contracts of work with existing processing facilities in indonesia may continue to export product through january 12, 2017, but established new requirements, for the continued export of copper concentrates, including the imposition of a progressive export duty on copper concentrates in the amount of 25 percent in 2014, rising to 60 percent by mid-2016. the january 2014 regulations conflict with pt freeport indonesia's (pt-fi) contractual rights under the contract of work (cow). 76 table of contents we are working with the indonesian government to clarify the situation and to defend pt-fi's right under the cow. refer to operations indonesia mining for further discussion. our 2014 copper and gold sales estimates, mining unit net cash costs and operating cash flow projections assume no changes to pt-fi's planned 2014 concentrate shipments. as of february 21, 2014, pt-fi has not obtained administrative approvals for 2014 exports. pt-fi has implemented near-term changes to its operations to coordinate its concentrate production with pt smelting's (pt-fi's 25 percent owned smelter in indonesia) operating plans. these changes will result in the deferral of an estimated 40 million pounds of copper and 80 thousand ounces of gold per month pending resolution of these matters. since mid-january 2014, pt-fi's milling rate has averaged approximately 112,000 metric tons of ore per day, which is approximately half of normal rates. mining unit net cash costs. assuming average prices of $1,200 per ounce of gold and $9.50 per pound of molybdenum, and achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, consolidated unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our copper mining operations are expected to average $1.45 per pound in 2014 . quarterly unit net cash costs vary with fluctuations in sales volumes and average realized prices (primarily gold and molybdenum prices). unit net cash costs are expected to decline in 2014, compared to the 2013 average, as we gain access to higher grade ore in indonesia. the impact of price changes in 2014 on consolidated unit net cash costs would approximate $0.02 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold and $0.02 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum. refer to consolidated results production and delivery costs for further discussion of consolidated production and delivery costs for our mining operations. oil and gas cash production costs per boe. based on current sales volume and cost estimates, cash production costs are expected to approximate $20 per boe for 2014 , which is higher than 2013 costs per boe, primarily reflecting the impact of lower estimated volumes from planned downtime associated with platform maintenance and subsea tie-back upgrades on the marlin facility in the gom during third-quarter 2014. refer to operations oil and gas operations for further discussion of oil and gas production and delivery costs. consolidated operating cash flow. our consolidated operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold, molybdenum and oil sales, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes and other working capital changes and other factors. based on current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound of copper, $1,200 per ounce of gold, $9.50 per pound of molybdenum and $105 per barrel of brent crude oil in 2014 , consolidated operating cash flows are estimated to approximate $9 billion (including $0.8 billion of net working capital sources and changes in other tax payments) in 2014 . projected consolidated operating cash flows for the year 2014 also reflect estimated taxes of $2.1 billion (refer to consolidated results provision for income taxes for discussion of our projected annual consolidated effective tax rate for 2014 ). the impact of price changes in 2014 on consolidated operating cash flows would approximate $370 million for each $0.10 per pound change in the average price of copper, $85 million for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold, $120 million for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum and $125 million for each $5 per barrel change in the price of brent crude oil above $100 per barrel. 77 table of contents markets metals. world prices for copper, gold and molybdenum can fluctuate significantly. during the period from january 2004 through january 2014, the london metal exchange (lme) spot copper price varied from a low of $1.06 per pound in 2004 to a record high of $4.60 per pound in february 2011; the london bullion market association (london) pm gold price fluctuated from a low of $375 per ounce in 2004 to a record high of $1,895 per ounce in september 2011, and the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price ranged from a low of $7.35 per pound in 2004 to a high of $39.25 per pound in 2005. copper, gold and molybdenum prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control as described further in our risk factors contained in part i, item 1a of our form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2013 . this graph presents lme spot copper prices and combined reported stocks of copper at the lme, commodity exchange inc. (comex), a division of the new york mercantile exchange (nymex), and the shanghai futures exchange from january 2004 through january 2014. from 2006 through most of 2008, limited supplies, combined with growing demand from china and other emerging economies, resulted in high copper prices and low levels of inventories. in late 2008, slowing consumption, turmoil in the u.s. financial markets and concerns about the global economy led to a sharp decline in copper prices, which reached a low of $1.26 per pound in december 2008. higher copper prices since that time are attributable to a combination of continuing demand from developing economies and an improving global economic environment. during 2013 , lme spot copper prices ranged from a low of $3.01 per pound to a high of $3.74 per pound, averaged $3.31 per pound and closed at $3.35 per pound on december 31, 2013 . we believe the underlying long-term fundamentals of the copper business remain positive, supported by the signific ant role of copper in the global economy and a challenging supply environment. future copper prices are expected to be volatile and are likely to be influenced by demand from china and emerging markets, as well as economic activity in the u.s. and other industrialized countries, the timing of the development of new supplies of copper and production levels of mines and copper smelters. the lme spot copper price closed at $3.25 per pound on february 14, 2014 . 78 table of contents this graph presents london pm gold prices from january 2004 through january 2014. an improving economic outlook and positive global equity performance contributed to lower demand for gold in 2013. during 2013 , gold prices ranged from a low of $1,192 per ounce to a high of $1,694 per ounce, averaged $1,405 per ounce and closed at $1,205 per ounce on december 31, 2013 . gold prices closed at $1,320 per ounce on february 14, 2014 . this graph presents the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price from january 2004 through january 2014. market conditions for molybdenum declined in 2013 because of weak demand in the metallurgical sector and increased supply. during 2013 , the weekly average price of molybdenum ranged from a low of $9.18 per pound to a high of $11.95 per pound, averaged $10.32 per pound and was $9.70 per pound on december 31, 2013 . the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price was $9.83 per pound on february 14, 2014 . oil and gas. market prices for crude oil and natural gas can fluctuate significantly. during the period from january 2004 through january 2014, the brent crude oil price ranged from a low of $28.83 per barrel in 2004 to a high of $146.08 per barrel in 2008 and the nymex natural gas price fluctuated from a low of $2.04 per million british 79 table of contents thermal units (mmbtu) in 2012 to a high of $13.91 per mmbtu in 2005. crude oil and natural gas prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control as described further in our risk factors contained in part i, item 1a of our form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2013 . this graph presents brent crude oil prices and nymex natural gas contract prices from january 2004 through january 2014. crude oil prices reached a record high in july 2008 as economic growth in emerging economies and the u.s. created high global demand for oil and lower inventories. by the end of 2008, financial turmoil in the u.s. contributed to a global economic slowdown and a decline in many commodity prices, including crude oil which reached a low of $36.61 per barrel in december 2008. crude oil prices have rebounded since 2008, supported by a gradually improving global economy and demand outlook. additionally, increased north american oil supplies led by u.s. shale production have negatively impacted u.s. gulf coast crude oil prices relative to brent pricing. during 2013 , the brent crude oil price ranged from a low of $97.69 per barrel to a high of $118.90 per barrel, averaged $108.68 per barrel and was $110.80 per barrel on december 31, 2013 . the brent crude oil price was $109.08 per barrel on february 14, 2014 . critical accounting estimates management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) in the u.s. the preparation of these statements requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. we base these estimates on historical experience and on assumptions that we consider reasonable under the circumstances; however, reported results could differ from those based on the current estimates under different assumptions or conditions. the areas requiring the use of management's estimates are also discussed in note 1 under the subheading use of estimates. management has reviewed the following discussion of its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our board. mineral reserves recoverable proven and probable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the determination of reserves involves numerous uncertainties with respect to the ultimate geology of the ore bodies, including quantities, grades and recovery rates. estimating the quantity and grade of mineral reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth of our ore bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes, tunnels and other underground workings. in addition to the geology of our mines, assumptions are required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves. our estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees. a majority of these estimates are reviewed annually and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. 80 table of contents at december 31, 2013 , our consolidated estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves were determined using long-term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper (consistent with the long-term average copper price used since december 31, 2010), $1,000 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. the following table summarizes changes in our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper, gold and molybdenum reserves during 2013 and 2012 : copper a (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) consolidated reserves at december 31, 2011 119.7 33.9 3.42 net additions/revisions 0.5 (0.4) 0.08 production (3.7 ) (1.0) (0.08) consolidated reserves at december 31, 2012 116.5 32.5 3.42 net additions/revisions (1.2 ) (0.07) production (4.1 ) (1.2) (0.09) consolidated reserves at december 31, 2013 111.2 31.3 3.26 a. includes estimated recoverable metals contained in stockpiles. see below for additional discussion of recoverable copper in stockpiles. refer to note 20 for further information regarding estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves. as discussed in note 1 , we depreciate our life-of-mine mining and milling assets and values assigned to proven and probable mineral reserves using the unit-of-production (uop) method based on our estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves. because the economic assumptions used to estimate mineral reserves change from period to period and additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations, including changes to prospective depreciation rates and impairments of asset carrying values. excluding impacts associated with changes in the levels of finished goods inventories and based on projected copper sales volumes for 2014 , if estimated copper reserves at our mines were 10 percent higher at december 31, 2013 , we estimate that our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense for 2014 would decrease by $59 million ($30 million to net income attributable to common stockholders), and a 10 percent decrease in copper reserves would increase depreciation, depletion and amortization expense by $72 million ($37 million to net income attributable to common stockholders). we perform annual assessments of our existing assets in connection with the review of mine operating and development plans. if it is determined that assigned asset lives do not reflect the expected remaining period of benefit, any change could affect prospective depreciation rates. as discussed below and in note 1 , we review and evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and changes to our estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves could have an impact on our assessment of asset recoverability. recoverable copper in stockpiles we record, as inventory, applicable costs for copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles that are expected to be processed in the future based on proven processing technologies. mill and leach stockpiles are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are stated at the lower of cost or market. accounting for recoverable copper from mill and leach stockpiles represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) it is impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, thus requiring management to employ reasonable estimation methods and (ii) recovery rates from leach stockpiles can vary significantly. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grade contained in the material delivered to the mill and leach stockpiles. expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. 81 table of contents expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. total copper recovery in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including processing methodology, processing variables, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 80 percent total copper recovery may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates for mill and leach stockpiles are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. adjustments to recovery rates will typically result in a future impact to the value of the material removed from the stockpiles at a revised weighted-average cost per pound of recoverable copper. at december 31, 2013 , estimated consolidated recoverable copper was 3.3 billion pounds in leach stockpiles (with a carrying value of $3.3 billion ) and 1.4 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (with a carrying value of $789 million ), compared with 2.9 billion pounds in leach stockpiles (with a carrying value of $2.9 billion) and 1.4 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (with a carrying value of $719 million) at december 31, 2012. oil and natural gas reserves proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. the term reasonable certainty implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. engineering estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves directly impact financial accounting estimates, including depreciation, depletion and amortization and the ceiling limitation under the full cost method. estimates of total proved reserves are determined using methods prescribed by the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec), which require the use of an average reference price calculated as the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical market prices for crude oil and natural gas. at december 31, 2013, our estimates were based on reference prices of $96.94 per barrel (west texas intermediate) and $3.67 per mmbtu (henry hub spot natural gas) as adjusted for location and quality differentials, which are held constant throughout the lives of the oil and gas properties, except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the average prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved oil and natural gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and the amount and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. future development and abandonment costs are determined annually for each of our properties based upon its geographic location, type of production structure, water depth, reservoir depth and characteristics, currently available procedures and consultations with engineering consultants. because these costs typically extend many years into the future, estimating these future costs is difficult and requires management to make judgments that are subject to future revisions based upon numerous factors, including changing technology and the political and regulatory environment. reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating the recovery from underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. because all reserve estimates are subjective, the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures and future oil and natural gas sales prices may all differ from those assumed in our estimates. 82 table of contents the following table summarizes our changes in estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves during 2013 based upon reserve reports prepared by the independent petroleum engineers of netherland, sewell &amp; associates, inc. and ryder scott company, l.p.: oil and natural gas (mmboe) acquisitions of pxp and mmr 472 extensions and discoveries 24 revisions of previous estimates 7 sales of reserves in-place (1 ) production (38 ) estimated proved reserves at december 31, 2013 464 refer to note 21 for further information regarding estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. changes to estimates of proved reserves could result in changes to the prospective uop amortization rate for our oil and gas properties, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. based on our estimated proved reserves and our net oil and gas properties subject to amortization at december 31, 2013, a 10 percent increase in our costs subject to amortization would increase our amortization rate by approximately $3.79 per boe and a 10 percent reduction to proved reserves would increase our amortization rate by approximately $4.21 per boe. changes in estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves may also affect our ceiling test calculation (refer to note 1 ). impairment of long-lived mining assets as discussed in note 1 , we evaluate our long-lived mining assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. in evaluating our long-lived assets for recoverability, estimates of after-tax undiscounted future cash flows of our individual mining operations are used, with impairment losses measured by reference to fair value. as quoted market prices are unavailable for our individual mining operations, fair value is determined through the use of discounted estimated future cash flows. the estimated cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long-lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations are derived from current business plans, which are developed using near-term price forecasts reflective of the current price environment and management's projections for long-term average metal prices. in addition to near- and long-term metal price assumptions, other key assumptions include commodity-based and other input costs; proven and probable reserves, including the timing and cost to develop and produce the reserves; and the use of appropriate escalation and discount rates. we believe our estimates and models used to determine fair value are similar to what a market participant would use. because the cash flows used to assess recoverability of our long-lived assets and measure fair value of our mining operations require us to make several estimates and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainty, changes in these estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our long-lived asset values. events that could result in impairment of our long-lived assets include, but are not limited to, decreases in future metal prices, decreases in estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves and any event that might otherwise have a material adverse effect on mine site production levels or costs. impairment of oil and gas properties as discussed in note 1 , we follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations, whereby all costs associated with oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized and amortized to expense under the uop method on a country-by-country basis using estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves relating to each country where such activities are conducted. in evaluating our oil and gas properties for impairment, estimates of future cash flows are used (refer to note 1 for further discussion of the ceiling test calculation). additionally, sec rules require that we price our future oil and gas production at the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference prices adjusted for location and quality differentials. such prices are utilized except where different prices are fixed and determinable from applicable contracts for the remaining term of those contracts excluding derivatives. the pricing in ceiling test impairment calculations required by full cost accounting may cause results that do not reflect current market conditions that exist at the end of an accounting period. for example, in periods of increasing oil and gas prices, the 83 table of contents use of a twelve-month historical average price in the ceiling test calculation may result in an impairment. conversely, in times of declining prices, ceiling test calculations may not result in an impairment. at december 31, 2013 , the ceiling with respect to our oil and gas properties exceeded the net capitalized costs of those properties by approximately 4 percent, and we did not record an impairment. given the volatility of crude oil and natural gas prices, it is likely that our estimate of discounted future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves will change in the near term. if crude oil and natural gas prices decline in the future, even if only by a small amount, impairments of our oil and gas properties could occur. at december 31, 2013 , we also had $10.9 billion of costs for unproved oil and gas properties, which are excluded from amortization. these costs will be transferred into the amortization base as the properties are evaluated and proved reserves are established or if impairment is determined. we assess our unproved properties at least annually, and if impairment is indicated, the cumulative drilling costs incurred to date for such property and all or a portion of the associated leasehold costs are transferred to the full cost pool and subject to amortization. accordingly, an impairment of unproved properties does not immediately result in the recognition of a charge to the consolidated statements of income, but rather increases the costs subject to amortization. the transfer of costs into the amortization base involves a significant amount of judgment and may be subject to changes over time based on our drilling plans and results, geological and geophysical evaluations, the assignment of proved reserves, availability of capital and other factors. because the transfer of unevaluated property to the full cost pool requires significant judgment and the ceiling test used to evaluate impairment of our proved oil and gas properties requires us to make several estimates and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainty, changes in these estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our oil and gas properties. events that could result in impairment of our oil and gas properties include, but are not limited to, decreases in future crude oil and natural gas prices, decreases in estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves, increases in production, development or abandonment costs and any event that might otherwise have a material adverse effect on our oil and gas production levels or costs. impairment of goodwill we account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires us to allocate the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management's judgment, the utilization of independent valuation experts, and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including future cash flows, discount rates and forward prices. the excess of acquisition consideration over the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. as of december 31, 2013 , our consolidated balance sheet included $1.9 billion of goodwill, all of which had been assigned to our u.s. oil and gas reporting unit. as described in note 2, the final valuation of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests in the 2013 oil and gas acquisitions is not complete, and any adjustments to these values could impact the amount of goodwill recorded. goodwill is required to be evaluated for impairment on at least an annual basis, or at any other time if events or circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may no longer be recoverable. we conduct a qualitative or quantitative goodwill impairment assessment during the fourth quarter of each year. a qualitative assessment involves examining relevant events and circumstances which could have a negative impact on our goodwill such as macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors that have a negative effect on earnings and cash flows, overall financial performance, dispositions and acquisitions, and any other relevant events or circumstances. after assessing the relevant events and circumstances for the qualitative impairment assessment during fourth-quarter 2013, we determined that performing a quantitative goodwill impairment test was unnecessary, and no goodwill impairment was recognized. crude oil and natural gas prices and our estimated oil and natural gas reserves represent the most significant assumptions used in our assessment to evaluate goodwill for impairment. accordingly, we believe events negatively affecting crude oil and natural gas prices or our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves may indicate impairment of goodwill assigned to our u.s. oil and gas reporting unit, and we could have an impairment of goodwill in the future. 84 table of contents environmental obligations our current and historical operating activities are subject to various national, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern the protection of the environment, and compliance with those laws requires significant expenditures. environmental expenditures are expensed or capitalized, depending upon their future economic benefits. the guidance provided by u.s. gaap requires that liabilities for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the cost can be reasonably estimated. at december 31, 2013 , environmental obligations recorded in our consolidated balance sheet totaled $1.2 billion , which reflect obligations for environmental liabilities attributed to the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act of 1980 (cercla) or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters. refer to notes 1 and 12 for further discussion of environmental obligations, including a summary of changes in our estimated environmental obligations for the three years ending december 31, 2013 . accounting for environmental obligations represents a critical accounting estimate because changes to environmental laws and regulations and/or circumstances affecting our operations could result in significant changes to our estimates, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. we perform a comprehensive annual review of our environmental obligations and also review changes in facts and circumstances associated with these obligations at least quarterly. judgments and estimates are based upon available facts, existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, remediation experience, whether or not we are a potentially responsible party (prp), the ability of other prps to pay their allocated portions and take into consideration reasonably possible outcomes. our cost estimates can change substantially as additional information becomes available regarding the nature or extent of site contamination, updated cost assumptions (including increases and decreases to cost estimates), changes in the anticipated scope and timing of remediation activities, the settlement of environmental matters, required remediation methods and actions by or against governmental agencies or private parties. asset retirement obligations we record the fair value of our estimated asset retirement obligations (aros) associated with tangible long-lived assets in the period incurred. fair value is measured as the present value of cash flow estimates after considering inflation and a market risk premium. our cost estimates are reflected on a third-party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible long-lived assets in the period incurred. these cost estimates may differ from financial assurance cost estimates for reclamation activities because of a variety of factors, including obtaining updated cost estimates for reclamation activities, the timing of reclamation activities, changes in scope and the exclusion of certain costs not considered reclamation and closure costs. at least annually, we review our aro estimates for changes in the projected timing of certain reclamation and closure/restoration costs, changes in cost estimates and additional aros incurred during the period. at december 31, 2013 , aros recorded in our consolidated balance sheet totaled $2.3 billion , including $1.1 billion associated with our oil and gas operations. refer to notes 1 and 12 for further discussion of reclamation and closure costs, including a summary of changes in our aros for the three years ended december 31, 2013 . generally, aro activities are specified by regulations or in permits issued by the relevant governing authority, and management judgment is required to estimate the extent and timing of expenditures. accounting for aros represents a critical accounting estimate because (i) we will not incur most of these costs for a number of years, requiring us to make estimates over a long period, (ii) reclamation and closure laws and regulations could change in the future and/or circumstances affecting our operations could change, either of which could result in significant changes to our current plans, (iii) the methods used or required to plug and abandon non-producing oil and gas well bores, remove platforms, tanks, production equipment and flow lines, and restore the wellsite could change (iv) calculating the fair value of our aros requires management to estimate projected cash flows, make long-term assumptions about inflation rates, determine our credit-adjusted, risk-free interest rates and determine market risk premiums that are appropriate for our operations and (v) given the magnitude of our estimated reclamation, mine closure and wellsite abandonment and restoration costs, changes in any or all of these estimates could have a significant impact on our results of operations. 85 table of contents deferred income taxes in preparing our annual consolidated financial statements, we estimate the actual amount of income taxes currently payable or receivable as well as deferred income tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. the effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates or laws is recognized in income in the period in which such changes are enacted. a valuation allowance is provided for those deferred income tax assets for which it is more likely than not that the related benefits will not be realized. in determining the amount of the valuation allowance, we consider estimated future taxable income as well as feasible tax planning strategies in each jurisdiction. if we determine that we will not realize all or a portion of our deferred income tax assets, we will increase our valuation allowance. conversely, if we determine that we will ultimately be able to realize all or a portion of the related benefits for which a valuation allowance has been provided, all or a portion of the related valuation allowance will be reduced. our valuation allowances totaled $2.5 billion at december 31, 2013 , and $2.4 billion at december 31, 2012 , and covered all of fcx's u.s. foreign tax credit carryforwards, and a portion of its foreign net operating loss carryforwards, u.s. state net operating loss carryforwards, u.s. state deferred tax assets and u.s. capital loss carryforwards. in addition, the valuation allowance at december 31, 2012 , covered a portion of u.s. minimum tax credit carryforwards. refer to note 11 for further discussion. 86 table of contents consolidated results years ended december 31, 2013 a 2012 2011 summary financial data (in millions, except per share amounts) revenues b,c $ 20,921 d $ 18,010 $ 20,880 operating income b,c $ 5,351 d,e,f,g,h $ 5,814 e,f,g,h $ 9,140 e,g net income attributable to fcx common stockholders c,l $ 2,658 d,e,f,g,h,i,j $ 3,041 e,f,g,h,j,k $ 4,560 e,g,j,k diluted net income per share attributable to fcx common stockholders c,l $ 2.64 d,e,f,g,h,i,j $ 3.19 e,f,g,h,j,k $ 4.78 e,g,j,k diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding 1,006 954 955 operating cash flows m $ 6,139 $ 3,774 $ 6,620 capital expenditures $ 5,286 $ 3,494 $ 2,534 at december 31: cash and cash equivalents $ 1,985 $ 3,705 $ 4,822 total debt, including current portion $ 20,706 $ 3,527 $ 3,537 a. includes the results of fm o&amp;g beginning june 1, 2013. b. following is a summary of revenues and operating income by operating division (in millions): years ended december 31, revenues 2013 2012 2011 north america copper mines $ 5,183 $ 5,486 $ 5,629 south america mining 4,485 4,728 5,258 indonesia mining 4,087 3,921 5,046 africa mining 1,637 1,359 1,289 molybdenum mines 522 529 595 rod &amp; refining 5,022 5,016 5,549 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining 2,041 2,709 2,984 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations 2,616 other mining, corporate, other &amp; eliminations (4,672 ) (5,738 ) (5,470 ) total fcx revenues $ 20,921 $ 18,010 $ 20,880 operating income (loss) north america copper mines $ 1,506 $ 2,204 $ 2,771 south america mining 2,063 2,321 3,088 indonesia mining 1,420 1,298 2,916 africa mining 625 562 550 molybdenum mines 123 150 291 rod &amp; refining 23 14 13 atlantic copper smelting &amp; refining (75 ) 8 (69 ) u.s. oil &amp; gas operations 450 other mining, corporate, other &amp; eliminations (784 ) (743 ) (420 ) total fcx operating income $ 5,351 $ 5,814 $ 9,140 refer to note 16 for further discussion of operating divisions and business segments. c. includes adjustments to provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales recognized in prior periods totaling $(26) million ( $(12) million to net income attributable to common stock or $(0.01) per share) for the year 2013 , $101 million ( $43 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.05 per share) for the year 2012 and $(12) million ( $(5) million to net income attributable to common stock or $(0.01) per share) for the year 2011 . refer to revenues for further discussion. d. includes charges for net unrealized and noncash realized losses on crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts totaling $312 million ( $194 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.19 per share) for the seven-month period from june 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013. e. includes net charges (credits) for adjustments to environmental obligations and related litigation reserves totaling $19 million ( $17 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.02 per share) in 2013 , $(62) million ( $(40) million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $(0.04) per share) in 2012 and $107 million ( $86 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.09 per share) in 2011. f. includes transaction and related costs principally associated with the oil and gas acquisitions totaling $80 million ( $50 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.05 per share) in 2013 and $9 million ( $7 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) in 2012. 87 table of contents g. includes charges associated with new labor agreements totaling $36 million ( $13 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.01 per share) at cerro verde in 2013 , $16 million ( $8 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.01 per share) at candelaria in 2012 and $116 million ( $50 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.05 per share) at pt-fi, cerro verde and el abra in 2011. h. the year 2013 includes charges of (i) $76 million ( $49 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.05 per share) associated with updated mine plans at morenci that resulted in a loss of recoverable copper in leach stockpiles and (ii) $37 million ( $23 million to net income attributable to common stock or $0.02 per share) for restructuring an executive employment arrangement. the year 2012 includes a gain of $59 million ( $31 million to net income attributable to common stockholders or $0.03 per share) for the settlement of the insurance claim for business interruption and property damage relating to the 2011 incidents affecting pt-fi's concentrate pipelines. i. the year 2013 includes gains associated with our oil and gas acquisitions, including (i) $128 million ($0.13 per share) primarily related to fcx's preferred stock investment in and the subsequent acquisition of mmr, and (ii) a tax benefit of $199 million ( $0.20 per share) associated with net reductions in fcx's deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax asset valuation allowances. refer to note 11 and "provision for income taxes" below for further discussion. j. includes net losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $28 million ( $0.03 per share) in 2013 , $149 million ( $0.16 per share) in 2012 and $60 million ( $0.06 per share) in 2011. refer to note 8 for further discussion. k. the year 2012 includes a tax benefit of $98 million , net of noncontrolling interests, ( $0.11 per share) associated with adjustments to cerro verde's deferred income taxes. the year 2011 includes a tax charge of $49 million, net of noncontrolling interests ($0.05 per share) for additional taxes associated with cerro verde's election to pay a special mining burden during the remaining term of its 1998 stability agreement. refer to note 11 and "provision for income taxes" below for further discussion. l. we defer recognizing profits on intercompany sales until final sales to third parties occur. refer to "operations - smelting &amp; refining" for a summary of net impacts from changes in these deferrals. m. includes net working capital uses and changes in other tax payments of $377 million for the year 2013 , $1.4 billion for the year 2012 and $461 million for the year 2011. years ended december 31, 2013 a 2012 2011 summary operating data copper (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 4,131 3,663 3,691 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 4,086 3,648 3,698 average realized price per pound $ 3.30 $ 3.60 $ 3.86 site production and delivery costs per pound b $ 1.88 $ 2.00 $ 1.72 unit net cash costs per pound b $ 1.49 $ 1.48 $ 1.01 gold (recoverable) production (thousands of ounces) 1,250 958 1,383 sales, excluding purchases (thousands of ounces) 1,204 1,010 1,378 average realized price per ounce $ 1,315 $ 1,665 $ 1,583 molybdenum (recoverable) production (millions of pounds) 94 85 83 sales, excluding purchases (millions of pounds) 93 83 79 average realized price per pound $ 11.85 $ 14.26 $ 16.98 oil equivalents sales volumes: mmboe 38.1 mboe per day 178 cash operating margin per boe c : realized revenues $ 76.87 cash production costs 17.14 cash operating margin $ 59.73 a. includes the results of fm o&amp;g beginning june 1, 2013. b. reflects per pound weighted-average production and delivery costs and unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for all copper mines, excluding net noncash and other costs. for reconciliations of the per pound unit costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements, refer to product revenues and production costs. 88 table of contents c. cash operating margin for our oil and gas operations reflects realized revenues less cash production costs. realized revenues exclude net unrealized and noncash realized losses on derivative contracts and cash production costs exclude accretion and other costs. for reconciliations of realized revenues and cash production costs per boe to revenues and production and delivery costs reported in our consolidated financial statements, refer to "product revenues and production costs." revenues consolidated revenues totaled $20.9 billion in 2013 , $18.0 billion in 2012 and $20.9 billion in 2011 , and included the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, gold, molybdenum and other metals by our north and south america copper mines; the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our indonesia mining operations; the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our africa mining operations; the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our molybdenum operations; the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes, and gold in anodes and slimes by atlantic copper; and beginning june 1, 2013, the sale of oil, natural gas and ngls by our oil and gas operations. our consolidated revenues for 2013 included sales of copper ( 69 percent ), oil ( 11 percent ), gold ( 8 percent ) and molybdenum ( 5 percent ). following is a summary of year-to-year changes in our consolidated revenues (in millions): 2013 2012 consolidated revenues - prior year $ 18,010 $ 20,880 mining operations: higher (lower) sales volumes from mining operations: copper 1,576 (194 ) gold 323 (583 ) molybdenum 151 61 silver 53 (38 ) cobalt 6 (6 ) (lower) higher price realizations from mining operations: copper (1,226 ) (948 ) gold (421 ) 82 molybdenum (225 ) (225 ) silver (70 ) (44 ) cobalt 5 (54 ) (unfavorable) favorable impact of net adjustments for prior year provisionally priced sales (133 ) 132 higher (lower) revenues from purchased copper 313 (469 ) lower atlantic copper revenues (668 ) (275 ) other, including intercompany eliminations 611 (309 ) oil and gas operations: oil and gas revenues, including net realized losses on derivative contracts 2,928 net unrealized and noncash realized losses on crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts (312 ) consolidated revenues - current year $ 20,921 $ 18,010 mining sales volumes consolidated sales volumes totaled 4.1 billion pounds of copper, 1.2 million ounces of gold and 93 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 , compared with 3.65 billion pounds of copper, 1.0 million ounces of gold and 83 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 and 3.7 billion pounds of copper, 1.4 million ounces of gold and 79 million pounds of molybdenum in 2011 . higher consolidated copper and gold sales volumes in 2013 , compared with 2012 , primarily reflected improved volumes throughout our global mining operations. lower consolidated copper and gold sales volumes in 2012 , compared with 2011 , primarily reflected lower volumes in indonesia and south america, partly offset by increased copper production in north america and africa. refer to operations for further discussion of sales volumes at our operating divisions. 89 table of contents metal price realizations our consolidated revenues can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. following is a summary of our average price realizations for the years ended december 31: 2013 2012 2011 copper (per pound) $ 3.30 $ 3.60 $ 3.86 gold (per ounce) $ 1,315 $ 1,665 $ 1,583 molybdenum (per pound) $ 11.85 $ 14.26 $ 16.98 silver (per ounce) $ 22.13 $ 30.06 $ 36.24 cobalt (per pound) $ 8.02 $ 7.83 $ 9.99 we generally recognized lower price realizations from our mining operations in 2013, compared with 2012, and also in 2012, compared with 2011. refer to "markets" for further discussion. provisionally priced sales impacts of net adjustments for prior year provisionally priced sales primarily relates to copper sales. substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices (refer to disclosures about market risks commodity price risk for further discussion). revenues included (unfavorable) favorable net adjustments to prior years' provisionally priced copper sales totaling $(26) million in 2013 , $101 million in 2012 and $(12) million in 2011 . purchased copper from time to time, we purchase copper cathode for processing by our rod &amp; refining segment when production from our north america copper mines does not meet customer demand. atlantic copper revenues the decrease in atlantic copper's revenues in 2013 , compared with 2012 , primarily reflected the impact of a major maintenance turnaround in 2013. the decrease in atlantic copper's revenues in 2012 , compared with 2011 , primarily reflected lower gold volumes. refer to "operations" for further discussion. oil &amp; gas revenues consolidated sales of 38.1 mmboe for the seven-month period following the acquisition date, included 26.6 mmbbls of crude oil, 54.2 bcf of natural gas and 2.4 mmbbls of ngls. our average realized prices, for the seven-month period following the acquisition date, were $98.32 per barrel for crude oil, $3.99 per mmbtu for natural gas and $38.20 per barrel for ngls. refer to operations for further discussion of sales volumes at our oil and gas operations. our oil and gas operations use various derivative contracts to manage exposure to commodity price risk for a substantial portion of our oil and gas production through 2015. in connection with the acquisition of pxp, we assumed derivative contracts for 2013, 2014 and 2015 that consisted of crude oil options, and crude oil and natural gas swaps. these crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts are not designated as hedging instruments; accordingly, they are recorded at fair value with the mark-to-market gains and losses recorded in revenues each period. net charges to revenues for unrealized and noncash realized losses on crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts totaled $312 million for the seven-month period following the acquisition date. refer to note 14 and "disclosure about market risks - commodity price risk" for further discussion of crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts. 90 table of contents production and delivery costs 2013 compared with 2012 consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $11.8 billion in 2013 , compared with $10.4 billion in 2012 . excluding production and delivery costs associated with oil and gas operations of $682 million for the seven-month period following the acquisition date, higher production and delivery costs for our mining operations primarily reflected higher copper purchases. consolidated unit site production and delivery costs, before net noncash and other costs, for our copper mining operations averaged $1.88 per pound of copper in 2013 , compared with $2.00 per pound of copper in 2012 . lower consolidated unit site production and delivery costs in 2013 primarily reflects higher copper volumes in indonesia and south america. assuming achievement of current 2014 volume and cost estimates, consolidated site production and delivery costs are expected to average $1.87 per pound of copper for 2014 . refer to "operations indonesia mining" for discussion of a regulatory matter impacting projected unit net cash costs, operations unit net cash costs for further discussion of unit net cash costs associated with our operating divisions, and to product revenues and production costs for reconciliations of per pound costs by operating division to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy approximated 20 percent of our consolidated copper production costs in 2013 and included purchases of approximately 260 million gallons of diesel fuel; 7,200 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america, south america and africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 705 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 mmbtu (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. for 2014 , we estimate energy will approximate 21 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. 2012 compared with 2011 consolidated production and delivery costs totaled $10.4 billion in 2012 , compared with $9.9 billion in 2011 . higher production and delivery costs for 2012 primarily reflected higher costs at our mining operations, partly offset by lower costs of concentrate purchases at atlantic copper associated with lower copper prices and lower volumes and lower costs of cathode purchases in north america. depreciation, depletion and amortization consolidated depreciation, depletion and amortization expense totaled $2.8 billion in 2013 (which included $1.4 billion for the seven-month period following the acquisition date for our oil and gas operations), $1.2 billion in 2012 and $1.0 billion in 2011 . depreciation will vary under the uop method as a result of changes in sales volumes and the related uop rates at our mining and oil and gas operations. excluding oil and gas operations, higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense in 2013 primarily reflected asset additions and higher production at our mining operations. selling, general and administrative expenses consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $657 million in 2013 , $431 million in 2012 and $415 million in 2011 . excluding selling, general and administrative expenses associated with oil and gas operations of $120 million for the seven-month period following the acquisition date, higher expense in 2013 , compared with 2012 , primarily reflected transaction and related costs associated with acquisitions ($80 million in 2013, compared with $9 million in 2012) and a $37 million charge in 2013 for restructuring an executive employment arrangement. mining exploration and research expenses consolidated exploration and research expenses for our mining operations totaled $210 million in 2013 , $285 million in 2012 and $271 million in 2011 . in 2013 , we took steps to reduce or defer operating, exploration and other costs in response to market conditions and our debt reduction objectives. we are actively conducting exploration activities near our existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves that will support additional future production capacity in the large mineral districts where we currently operate. exploration results indicate opportunities for what we believe could be significant future reserve additions in north and south america and in the tenke minerals district. the drilling data in north america continues to indicate the potential for expanded sulfide production. for 2014 , exploration and research expenditures for our mining operations are expected to total approximately $150 million , including approximately $120 million for exploration. 91 table of contents as further discussed in note 1, under the full cost method of accounting, exploration costs for our oil and gas operations are capitalized to oil and gas properties. environmental obligations and shutdown costs environmental obligation costs (credits) reflect net revisions to our long-term environmental obligations, which will vary from period to period because of changes to environmental laws and regulations, the settlement of environmental matters and/or circumstances affecting our operations that could result in significant changes in our estimates (refer to "critical accounting estimates - environmental obligations" for further discussion). shutdown costs include care and maintenance costs and any litigation, remediation or related expenditures associated with closed facilities or operations. net charges (credits) for environmental obligations and shutdown costs totaled a $66 million in 2013 , $(22) million in 2012 and $134 million in 2011 . refer to note 12 for further discussion of environmental obligations and litigation matters. interest expense, net consolidated interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) totaled $692 million in 2013 , $267 million in 2012 and $421 million in 2011 . the increase in interest expense in 2013 primarily reflects additional interest expense associated with acquisition-related debt (refer to note 8 for discussion). capitalized interest is primarily related to the level of expenditures for our development projects and average interest rates on our borrowings, and totaled $174 million in 2013 , $81 million in 2012 and $109 million in 2011 . the increase in 2013 , compared with the 2012 , primarily reflects the addition of capitalized interest associated with expenditures for our oil and gas properties totaling $69 million for the seven-month period following the acquisition date. refer to capital resources and liquidity - investing activities for further discussion of current development projects. losses on early extinguishment of debt during 2013 , we recorded net losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $35 million primarily associated with the termination of the bridge loan facilities for the pxp and mmr acquisitions, partly offset by a gain on the redemption of mmr's remaining outstanding 11.875% senior notes. during 2012 , we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $168 million associated with the redemption of our remaining 8.375% senior notes. during 2011 , we recorded losses on early extinguishment of debt totaling $68 million associated with the redemption of our 8.25% senior notes, the revolving credit facilities that were replaced in march 2011 and open-market purchases of our 9.50% senior notes. refer to note 8 for further discussion of these transactions. 92 table of contents provision for income taxes following is a summary of the approximate amounts used in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for the years ended december 31 (in millions, except percentages): 2013 2012 income a effective tax rate income tax (provision) benefit income a effective tax rate income tax (provision) benefit u.s. $ 1,080 23% $ (243 ) $ 1,571 23% $ (357 ) south america 2,021 36% (720 ) 2,211 36% (791 ) b indonesia 1,370 44% (603 ) 1,287 39% (497 ) africa 425 31% (131 ) 357 31% (112 ) eliminations and other 17 n/a 23 61 n/a 13 4,913 34% (1,674 ) $ 5,487 32% $ (1,744 ) adjustments n/a 199 c n/a 234 d consolidated fcx $ 4,913 30% $ (1,475 ) $ 5,487 28% $ (1,510 ) a. represents income by geographic location before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies' net earnings. b. in 2012, cerro verde signed a new 15-year mining stability agreement with the peruvian government, which became effective january 1, 2014. in connection with the new mining stability agreement, cerro verde's income tax rate increased from 30 percent to 32 percent, and we recognized additional deferred tax expense of $29 million ( $25 million net of noncontrolling interests). c. reflects net reductions in our deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax asset valuation allowances resulting from the oil and gas acquisitions (see note 11 ). d. reflects the reversal of a net deferred tax liability totaling $234 million ( $123 million net of noncontrolling interest) related to reinvested profits at cerro verde that were not expected to be distributed prior to expiration of its 1998 stability agreement on december 31, 2013. following is a summary of the approximate amounts used in the calculation of our consolidated provision for income taxes for the year ended december 31 (in millions, except percentages): 2011 income a effective tax rate income tax provision u.s. $ 2,109 23% $ (477 ) south america 3,017 36% (1,075 ) b indonesia 2,923 43% (1,256 ) africa 357 34% (120 ) eliminations and other 412 n/a (159 ) consolidated fcx $ 8,818 35% $ (3,087 ) a. represents income by geographic location before income taxes and equity in affiliated companies' net earnings. b. in september 2011, peru enacted a new mining tax and royalty regime and also created a special mining burden that companies with stability agreements could elect to pay. cerro verde elected to pay this special mining burden during the remaining term of its 1998 stability agreement, which expired on december 31, 2013. as a result, cerro verde recognized additional tax expense of $53 million ( $49 million net of noncontrolling interests) in 2011. our consolidated effective income tax rate is a function of the combined effective tax rates for the jurisdictions in which we operate. accordingly, variations in the relative proportions of jurisdictional income result in fluctuations to our consolidated effective income tax rate. assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound for copper, $1,200 per ounce for gold, $9.50 per pound for molybdenum and brent crude oil of $105 per barrel and achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate our annual consolidated effective tax rate for the year 2014 will approximate 35 percent. refer to note 11 for further discussion of income taxes. 93 table of contents operations north america copper mines we operate seven open-pit copper mines in north america morenci, bagdad, safford, sierrita and miami in arizona, and chino and tyrone in new mexico. all of the north america mining operations are wholly owned, except for morenci. we record our 85 percent joint venture interest in morenci using the proportionate consolidation method. the north america copper mines include open-pit mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and solution extraction/electrowinning (sx/ew) operations. a majority of the copper produced at our north america copper mines is cast into copper rod by our rod &amp; refining segment. the remainder of our north america copper sales is in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate, a portion of which is shipped to atlantic copper (our wholly owned smelter). molybdenum concentrate is also produced by certain of our north america copper mines (sierrita, bagdad, morenci and chino) . operating and development activities. we have increased production from our north america copper mines in recent years and we continue to evaluate opportunities to invest in additional production capacity following positive exploration results. future investments will be undertaken based on the results of economic and technical feasibility studies and market conditions. morenci mill expansion. we are expanding mining and milling capacity to process additional sulfide ores identified through exploratory drilling. the project is targeting incremental annual production of approximately 225 million pounds of copper beginning in 2014 (an approximate 40 percent increase from 2013) through an increase in milling rates from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day. at full rates, morenci's copper production is expected to approach 1 billion pounds in 2015, compared with 564 million pounds in 2013. as of december 31, 2013, construction was more than 60 percent complete and the project is on track for first copper production in the first half of 2014. at december 31, 2013, project costs of $1.0 billion had been incurred ($0.7 billion during 2013 ), with approximately $0.6 billion remaining to be incurred. operating data. following is summary operating data for the north america copper mines for the years ended december 31: 2013 2012 2011 operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 1,431 1,363 1,258 sales, excluding purchases 1,422 1,351 1,247 average realized price per pound $ 3.36 $ 3.64 $ 3.99 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production a 32 36 35 100% operating data sx/ew operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 1,003,500 998,600 888,300 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.22 0.22 0.24 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 889 866 801 mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 246,500 239,600 222,800 average ore grade (percent): copper 0.39 0.37 0.38 molybdenum 0.03 0.03 0.03 copper recovery rate (percent) 85.3 83.9 83.1 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 642 592 549 a. refer to "consolidated results" for our consolidated molybdenum sales volumes, which includes sales of molybdenum produced at the north america copper mines. 94 table of contents 2013 compared with 2012 copper sales volumes from our north america copper mines increased to 1.42 billion pounds in 2013 , compared with 1.35 billion pounds in 2012 , primarily because of higher mining and milling rates, higher copper ore grades and higher recovery rates. north america copper production is expected to continue to improve in 2014 following the completion of the morenci mill expansion. copper sales volumes from our north america copper mines are expected to approximate 1.73 billion pounds in 2014 . refer to "outlook" for projected molybdenum sales volumes. 2012 compared with 2011 copper sales volumes from our north america copper mines increased to 1.35 billion pounds in 2012 , compared with 1.25 billion pounds in 2011 , primarily reflecting increased production at the chino mine. unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. gross profit per pound of copper and molybdenum the following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at our north america copper mines for the years ended december 31. refer to product revenues and production costs for an explanation of the by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2013 2012 by- co-product method by- co-product method product method copper molyb- denum a product method copper molyb- denum a revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.36 $ 3.36 $ 10.79 $ 3.64 $ 3.64 $ 13.00 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2.00 1.94 3.79 1.91 1.75 6.32 by-product credits (0.24 ) (0.36 ) treatment charges 0.11 0.11 0.12 0.11 unit net cash costs 1.87 2.05 3.79 1.67 1.86 6.32 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.28 0.27 0.22 0.26 0.24 0.48 noncash and other costs, net 0.14 b 0.14 0.04 0.10 0.10 0.09 total unit costs 2.29 2.46 4.05 2.03 2.20 6.89 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.01 0.01 gross profit per pound $ 1.07 $ 0.90 $ 6.74 $ 1.62 $ 1.45 $ 6.11 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,416 1,416 1,347 1,347 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) a 32 36 a. reflects sales of molybdenum produced by certain of the north america copper mines to our molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. b. includes $76 million ($0.05 per pound) associated with updated mine plans at morenci that resulted in a loss in recoverable copper in leach stockpiles. our north america copper mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and characteristics, processing costs, by-product credits and other factors. during 2013 , average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for the north america copper mines ranged from $1.55 per pound to $2.28 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.87 per pound. higher average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) in 2013 , compared with $1.67 per pound in 2012 , primarily reflected lower molybdenum credits and increased mining and milling activities, partly offset by higher copper sales volumes. 95 table of contents because certain assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis, north america's average unit depreciation rate may vary with asset additions and the level of copper production and sales. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and an average price of $9.50 per pound of molybdenum for 2014 , average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our north america copper mines are expected to approximate $1.76 per pound of copper in 2014 . north america's average unit net cash costs for 2014 would change by approximately $0.04 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of molybdenum during 2014 . 2012 2011 by- co-product method by- co-product method product method copper molyb- denum a product method copper molyb- denum a revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.64 $ 3.64 $ 13.00 $ 3.99 $ 3.99 $ 15.72 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.91 1.75 6.32 1.78 1.60 6.86 by-product credits (0.36 ) (0.48 ) treatment charges 0.12 0.11 0.11 0.10 unit net cash costs 1.67 1.86 6.32 1.41 1.70 6.86 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.26 0.24 0.48 0.21 0.20 0.39 noncash and other costs, net 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.13 0.13 0.09 total unit costs 2.03 2.20 6.89 1.75 2.03 7.34 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.01 0.01 gross profit per pound $ 1.62 $ 1.45 $ 6.11 $ 2.24 $ 1.96 $ 8.38 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,347 1,347 1,244 1,244 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) a 36 35 a. reflects sales of molybdenum produced by certain of the north america copper mines to our molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our north america copper mines increased to $1.67 per pound of copper in 2012 , compared with $1.41 per pound in 2011 , primarily reflecting increased mining and milling activities and lower molybdenum credits, partly offset by higher copper sales volumes. south america mining we operate four copper mines in south america cerro verde in peru, and el abra, candelaria and ojos del salado in chile. we own a 53.56 percent interest in cerro verde, a 51 percent interest in el abra, and an 80 percent interest in the candelaria and ojos del salado mining complex. all operations in south america are consolidated in our financial statements. south america mining includes open-pit and underground mining, sulfide ore concentrating, leaching and sx/ew operations. production from our south america mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under long-term contracts. our south america mines ship a portion of their copper concentrate inventories to atlantic copper. in addition to copper, the candelaria and ojos del salado mines produce gold and silver, and the cerro verde mine produces molybdenum concentrates. operating and development activities. cerro verde expansion. construction activities associated with a large-scale expansion at cerro verde are in progress. at december 31, 2013, engineering was more than 90 percent complete and construction progress is advancing on schedule. the project is expected to expand the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. at december 31, 2013, $1.5 billion had been incurred for this project (approximately $1.0 billion during 2013), with approximately $3.1 billion remaining to be incurred. considering the long-term nature and large size of the project, actual costs could vary from these estimates. 96 table of contents el abra sulfide. we continue to evaluate a potential large-scale milling operation at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. exploration results at el abra have identified a significant sulfide resource, which could potentially support a major mill project. future investments will be dependent on technical studies, economic factors and global market conditions. operating data. following is summary operating data for our south america mining operations for the years ended december 31. 2013 2012 2011 copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 1,323 1,257 1,306 sales 1,325 1,245 1,322 average realized price per pound $ 3.30 $ 3.58 $ 3.77 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 101 83 101 sales 102 82 101 average realized price per ounce $ 1,350 $ 1,673 $ 1,580 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) production a 13 8 10 sx/ew operations leach ore placed in stockpiles (metric tons per day) 274,600 229,300 245,200 average copper ore grade (percent) 0.50 0.55 0.50 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 448 457 439 mill operations ore milled (metric tons per day) 192,600 191,400 189,200 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.65 0.60 0.66 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.12 0.10 0.12 molybdenum (percent) 0.02 0.02 0.02 copper recovery rate (percent) 90.9 90.1 89.6 copper production (millions of recoverable pounds) 875 800 867 a. refer to "consolidated results" for our consolidated molybdenum sales volumes, which includes sales of molybdenum produced at cerro verde. 2013 compared with 2012 consolidated copper sales volumes from south america totaled 1.33 billion pounds in 2013 , compared with 1.25 billion in 2012 , primarily reflecting higher ore grades at candelaria, partly offset by lower ore grades at cerro verde. for the year 2014, consolidated sales volumes from south america mines are expected to approximate 1.2 billion pounds of copper, which are lower than 2013 volumes, primarily reflecting lower ore grades at candelaria and cerro verde. refer to "outlook" for projected gold and molybdenum sales volumes. 2012 compared with 2011 copper sales volumes from our south america mining operations totaled 1.25 billion pounds in 2012 , compared with 1.32 billion pounds in 2011 , primarily reflecting lower ore grades at candelaria and cerro verde, partially offset by higher mining rates and ore grades at el abra. unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 97 table of contents gross profit per pound of copper the following tables summarize unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound at our south america mining operations for the years ended december 31. unit net cash costs per pound of copper are reflected under the by-product and co-product methods as the south america mining operations also had small amounts of molybdenum, gold and silver sales. refer to product revenues and production costs for an explanation of the by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2013 2012 by-product method co-product method by-product method co-product method revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.30 $ 3.30 $ 3.58 $ 3.58 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.53 a 1.42 1.60 a 1.49 by-product credits (0.27 ) (0.26 ) treatment charges 0.17 0.17 0.16 0.16 unit net cash costs 1.43 1.59 1.50 1.65 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.26 0.24 0.23 0.22 noncash and other costs, net 0.04 0.03 0.09 0.06 total unit costs 1.73 1.86 1.82 1.93 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (0.03 ) (0.03 ) 0.09 0.09 gross profit per pound $ 1.54 $ 1.41 $ 1.85 $ 1.74 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,325 1,325 1,245 1,245 a. includes labor agreement costs totaling $36 million ($0.03 per pound) at cerro verde in 2013 and $16 million ($0.01 per pound) at candelaria in 2012. our south america mines have varying cost structures because of differences in ore grades and characteristics, processing costs, by-products and other factors. during 2013 , unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for the south america mines ranged from $1.24 per pound to $2.02 per pound at the individual mines and averaged $1.43 per pound. average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our south america mining operations decreased to $1.43 per pound of copper in 2013 , compared with $1.50 per pound in 2012 , primarily reflecting higher volumes. because certain assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis, south america's unit depreciation rate may vary with asset additions and the level of copper production and sales. revenue adjustments primarily result from changes in prices on provisionally priced copper sales recognized in prior periods. refer to consolidated results - revenues for further discussion of adjustments to prior period provisionally priced copper sales. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates and average prices of $1,200 per ounce of gold and $9.50 per pound of molybdenum in 2014 , we estimate that average unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our south america mining operations would approximate $1.61 per pound of copper in 2014 , which are higher than 2013 average unit net cash costs primarily because of lower volumes. 98 table of contents 2012 2011 by-product method co-product method by-product method co-product method revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.58 $ 3.58 $ 3.77 $ 3.77 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.60 a 1.49 1.38 a 1.27 by-product credits (0.26 ) (0.35 ) treatment charges 0.16 0.16 0.17 0.17 unit net cash costs 1.50 1.65 1.20 1.44 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.23 0.22 0.20 0.18 noncash and other costs, net 0.09 0.06 0.06 0.05 total unit costs 1.82 1.93 1.46 1.67 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.09 0.09 0.01 gross profit per pound $ 1.85 $ 1.74 $ 2.32 $ 2.10 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,245 1,245 1,322 1,322 a. includes labor agreement costs totaling $16 million ($0.01 per pound) at candelaria in 2012 and $50 million ($0.04 per pound) at cerro verde and el abra in 2011. unit net cash costs (net of by-product credits) for our south america mining operations increased to $1.50 per pound of copper in 2012 , compared with $1.20 per pound in 2011 , primarily reflecting higher mining and input costs, lower by-product credits and lower sales volumes. indonesia mining indonesia mining includes pt-fi's grasberg minerals district. we own 90.64 percent of pt-fi, including 9.36 percent owned through our wholly owned subsidiary, pt indocopper investama (refer to notes 3 and 13 ). pt-fi produces copper concentrates, which contain significant quantities of gold and silver. substantially all of pt-fi's copper concentrates are sold under long-term contracts, of which approximately one-half is sold to atlantic copper and pt smelting, and the remainder to other third-party customers. pt-fi proportionately consolidates certain unincorporated joint ventures with rio tinto plc (rio tinto), under which rio tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our joint ventures with rio tinto. refer to "regulatory matters" below and note 13 for further discussion of pt-fi's cow with the indonesian government. refer to "risk factors" contained in part i, item 1a of our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2013 , for discussion of risks associated with operations in indonesia. regulatory matters. in january 2014, the indonesian government published regulations providing that holders of contracts of work with existing processing facilities in indonesia may continue to export product through january 12, 2017, but established new requirements for the continued export of copper concentrates, including the imposition of a progressive export duty on copper concentrates in the amount of 25 percent in 2014, rising to 60 percent by mid-2016. pt-fi's cow, which has a primary term through 2021 and allows for two 10-year extensions through 2041 (subject to approval by the indonesian government, which cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably), authorizes it to export concentrates and specifies the taxes and other fiscal terms available to its operations. the cow states that pt-fi shall not be subject to taxes, duties or fees subsequently imposed or approved by the indonesian government except as expressly provided in the cow. additionally, pt-fi complied with the requirements of its cow for local processing by arranging for the construction and commissioning of indonesia's only copper smelter and refinery, which is owned by pt smelting. during 2014, approximately 40 percent of pt-fi's production is expected to be shipped to pt smelting, with the balance of its concentrates expected to be sold pursuant to long-term contracts with other international smelters. the january 2014 regulations conflict with pt-fi's contractual rights under its cow. we are working with the indonesian government to clarify the situation and to defend pt-fi's rights under its cow. pt-fi is also seeking to obtain the required administrative permits for 2014 exports, which have been delayed as a result of the new regulations. 99 table of contents pt-fi's 2014 copper and gold sales estimates discussed below assume no changes to planned 2014 concentrate shipments. as of february 21, 2014, pt-fi has not obtained administrative approval for 2014 exports. pt-fi has implemented near-term changes to its operations to coordinate its concentrate production with pt smelting's operating plans. these changes will reduce pt-fi's monthly copper and gold production by an estimated 40 million pounds of copper and 80 thousand ounces of gold pending resolution of these matters. since mid-january 2014, pt-fi's milling rate has averaged approximately 112,000 metric tons of ore per day, which is approximately half of normal rates. pt-fi is engaging with the government of indonesia to reach a resolution that would enable pt-fi to resume normal operations as soon as possible. in the event that pt-fi is unable to resume normal operations for an extended period, we plan to consider further actions, including constraining operating costs, deferring capital expenditures and implementing workforce reductions. pt-fi may also be required to declare force majeure under its concentrate sales agreements. pt-fi is also engaged in discussions with officials of the indonesian government on its operations, future plans and cow. we are working with the government in its review of pt-fi's cow and to obtain an extension of our cow beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the cow. refer to note 13 for further discussion. operating and development activities. we have several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district related to the development of the large-scale, long-lived, high-grade underground ore bodies. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up over several years to produce approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the transition from the grasberg open pit, currently anticipated to occur in 2017. over the next five years, estimated aggregate capital spending on these projects is currently expected to average $0.9 billion per year ( $0.7 billion per year net to pt-fi). considering the long-term nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could vary from these estimates. the following provides additional information on the continued development of the common infrastructure project, the grasberg block cave underground mine and development of the deep mill level zone (dmlz) ore body that lies below the deep ore zone (doz) underground mine. common infrastructure and grasberg block cave mine. in 2004, pt-fi commenced its common infrastructure project to provide access to its large undeveloped underground ore bodies located in the grasberg minerals district through a tunnel system located approximately 400 meters deeper than its existing underground tunnel system. in addition to providing access to our underground ore bodies, the tunnel system will enable pt-fi to conduct future exploration in prospective areas associated with currently identified ore bodies. the tunnel system was completed to the big gossan terminal, and the big gossan mine was brought into production in 2010. development of the dmlz and grasberg block cave underground mines is advancing using the common infrastructure project tunnels as access. the grasberg block cave underground mine accounts for more than 40 percent of our recoverable proven and probable reserves in indonesia. production at the grasberg block cave mine is expected to commence in 2017, at the end of mining the grasberg open pit. targeted production rates once the grasberg block cave mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 160,000 metric tons of ore per day. aggregate mine development capital for the grasberg block cave mine and associated common infrastructure is expected to approximate $5.2 billion (incurred from 2008 to 2021), with pt-fi's share totaling approximately $4.6 billion. aggregate project costs totaling $1.3 billion have been incurred through december 31, 2013 ($0.5 billion during 2013 ). dmlz. the dmlz ore body lies below the doz mine at the 2,590-meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the ertsberg east skarn system and neighboring ertsberg porphyry. we plan to mine the ore body using a block-cave method with production beginning in 2015. targeted production rates once the dmlz mining operation reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. drilling efforts continue to determine the extent of this ore body. aggregate mine development capital costs for the dmlz mine are expected to approximate $2.6 billion (incurred between 2009 to 2020), with pt-fi's share totaling approximately $1.5 billion. aggregate project costs totaling $0.8 billion have been incurred through december 31, 2013 ($0.3 billion during 2013 ). 100 table of contents operating data. following is summary operating data for our indonesia mining operations for the years ended december 31. 2013 2012 2011 operating data, net of joint venture interest copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 915 695 846 sales 885 716 846 average realized price per pound $ 3.28 $ 3.58 $ 3.85 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) production 1,142 862 1,272 sales 1,096 915 1,270 average realized price per ounce $ 1,312 $ 1,664 $ 1,583 100% operating data ore milled (metric tons per day): a grasberg open pit 127,700 118,800 112,900 doz underground mine b 49,400 44,600 51,700 big gossan underground mine c 2,100 1,600 1,500 total 179,200 165,000 166,100 average ore grade: copper (percent) 0.76 0.62 0.79 gold (grams per metric ton) 0.69 0.59 0.93 recovery rates (percent): copper 90.0 88.7 88.3 gold 80.0 75.7 81.2 production (recoverable): copper (millions of pounds) 928 695 882 gold (thousands of ounces) 1,142 862 1,444 a. amounts represent the approximate average daily throughput processed at pt-fi's mill facilities from each producing mine. b. production from the doz underground mine is expected to ramp up to the design rate of 80,000 metric tons of ore per day during 2014, pending approval of export permits as described above. c. production from the big gossan underground mine is expected to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day by 2016; however, production is currently suspended pending resolution of the export regulatory matter. 2013 compared with 2012 indonesia's sales volumes increased to 885 million pounds of copper and 1.1 million ounces of gold in 2013 , compared with 716 million pounds of copper and 915 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 , primarily reflecting higher ore grades and increased mill rates. at the grasberg mine, the sequencing of mining areas with varying ore grades causes fluctuations in quarterly and annual production of copper and gold. consolidated sales volumes from our indonesia mining operations are expected to approximate 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.65 million ounces of gold for 2014. sales from indonesia mining are expected to increase in 2014 through 2016 as pt-fi gains access to higher grade ore. pt-fi's estimated sales volumes are subject to change depending on timing of resolution of export matter as described in "regulatory matters" above. 2012 compared with 2011 sales volumes from our indonesia mining operations declined to 716 million pounds of copper and 915 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 , compared with 846 million pounds of copper and 1.3 million ounces of gold in 2011 primarily reflecting lower ore grades. unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined 101 table of contents in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metal mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. gross profit per pound of copper/per ounce of gold the following tables summarize the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of copper and per ounce of gold at our indonesia mining operations for the years ended december 31. refer to production revenues and production costs for an explanation of by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2013 2012 by- product co-product method by- product co-product method method copper gold method copper gold revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.28 $ 3.28 $ 1,312 $ 3.58 $ 3.58 $ 1,664 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2.46 1.62 648 3.12 1.93 894 gold and silver credits (1.69 ) (2.22 ) treatment charges 0.23 0.15 61 0.21 0.13 61 royalty on metals 0.12 0.08 33 0.13 0.08 38 unit net cash costs 1.12 1.85 742 1.24 2.14 993 depreciation and amortization 0.28 0.19 73 0.30 0.18 85 noncash and other costs, net 0.13 0.09 35 0.11 0.07 33 total unit costs 1.53 2.13 850 1.65 2.39 1,111 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (1 ) 0.02 0.02 3 pt smelting intercompany loss (0.02 ) (0.01 ) (6 ) (0.05 ) (0.03 ) (15 ) gross profit per pound/ounce $ 1.73 $ 1.14 $ 455 $ 1.90 $ 1.18 $ 541 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 885 885 716 716 gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,096 915 a significant portion of pt-fi's costs are fixed and unit costs vary depending on sales volumes. indonesia's unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) averaged $1.12 per pound of copper in 2013 , compared with $1.24 per pound in 2012 , primarily reflecting higher volumes. treatment charges vary with the volume of metals sold and the price of copper, and royalties vary with the volume of metals sold and the prices of copper and gold. because certain assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis, pt-fi's unit depreciation rate varies with the level of copper production and sales. revenue adjustments primarily result from changes in prices on provisionally priced copper sales recognized in prior periods. refer to consolidated results - revenues for further discussion of adjustments to prior period provisionally priced copper sales. intercompany profit (loss) from sales to pt smelting represents the elimination of 25 percent of pt-fi's sales to pt smelting. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, and an average gold price of $1,200 per ounce for 2014 , we estimate that indonesia's unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) are expected to approximate $0.81 per pound of copper for the year 2014 , which are lower than 2013 unit cash costs primarily because of higher volumes. indonesia's projected unit net cash costs would change by approximately $0.075 per pound for each $50 per ounce change in the average price of gold during 2014 . because of the fixed nature of a large portion of indonesia's costs, unit costs vary from quarter to quarter depending on copper and gold volumes. 102 table of contents 2012 2011 by- product co-product method by- product co-product method method copper gold method copper gold revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.58 $ 3.58 $ 1,664 $ 3.85 $ 3.85 $ 1,583 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 3.12 1.93 894 2.21 a 1.34 551 gold and silver credits (2.22 ) (2.47 ) treatment charges 0.21 0.13 61 0.19 0.11 46 royalty on metals 0.13 0.08 38 0.16 0.10 41 unit net cash costs 1.24 2.14 993 0.09 1.55 638 depreciation and amortization 0.30 0.18 85 0.25 0.16 63 noncash and other costs, net 0.11 0.07 33 0.04 0.02 10 total unit costs 1.65 2.39 1,111 0.38 1.73 711 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.02 0.02 3 (0.01 ) (0.01 ) (13 ) pt smelting intercompany (loss) profit (0.05 ) (0.03 ) (15 ) 0.13 0.08 32 gross profit per pound/ounce $ 1.90 $ 1.18 $ 541 $ 3.59 $ 2.19 $ 891 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 716 716 846 846 gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 915 1,270 a. includes $66 million ($0.08 per pound) for bonuses and other strike-related costs . unit net cash costs (net of gold and silver credits) for our indonesia mining operations averaged $1.24 per pound of copper in 2012 , compared with $0.09 per pound in 2011 . higher unit net cash costs primarily reflected lower copper and gold sales volumes. africa mining africa mining includes tfm's tenke minerals district. we hold an effective 56 percent interest in the tenke copper and cobalt mining concessions in the katanga province of the drc through our consolidated subsidiary tfm, and we are the operator of tenke. the tenke operation includes surface mining, leaching and sx/ew operations. copper production from the tenke minerals district is sold as copper cathode. in addition to copper, the tenke minerals district produces cobalt hydroxide. operating and development activities. tfm completed its second phase expansion project in early 2013, which included optimizing the current plant and increasing mine, mill and processing capacity. the expanded mill facility is performing well. throughput rates averaged 14,900 metric tons of ore per day during 2013, compared with original design capacity of 14,000 metric tons of ore per day, which has enabled an increase in tenke's copper production to over 430 million pounds per year. the addition of a second sulphuric acid plant is expected to be completed in 2016. we continue to engage in exploration activities and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective tenke minerals district. these analyses are being incorporated in future plans for potential expansions of production capacity. future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including economic and market conditions, and the business and investment climate in the drc. during the second half of 2013, our africa mining operations experienced several power interruptions which negatively impacted operating rates. power availability has improved, and tfm continues to work with its power provider and drc authorities to establish more consistent and reliable power availability. 103 table of contents operating data. following is summary operating data for our africa mining operations for the years ended december 31. 2013 2012 2011 copper (millions of recoverable pounds) production 462 348 281 sales 454 336 283 average realized price per pound a $ 3.21 $ 3.51 $ 3.74 cobalt (millions of contained pounds) production 28 26 25 sales 25 25 25 average realized price per pound $ 8.02 $ 7.83 $ 9.99 ore milled (metric tons per day) 14,900 13,000 11,100 average ore grade (percent): copper 4.22 3.62 3.41 cobalt 0.37 0.37 0.40 copper recovery rate (percent) 91.4 92.4 92.5 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. 2013 compared with 2012 copper sales volumes from tfm increased to 454 million pounds in 2013 , compared with 336 million pounds in 2012 , primarily reflecting increased mining and milling rates resulting from the expansion project completed in early 2013, and higher ore grades. consolidated sales volumes from our africa mining operations are expected to approximate 445 million pounds of copper and 30 million pounds of cobalt in 2014 . 2012 compared with 2011 copper sales volumes from our africa mining operations increased to 336 million pounds of copper in 2012 , compared with 283 million pounds of copper in 2011 , primarily reflecting higher mining and milling rates principally related to the ramp-up of the expansion project. unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of copper is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 104 table of contents gross profit per pound of copper and cobalt the following tables summarize the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of copper and cobalt at our africa mining operations for the years ended december 31. refer to production revenues and production costs for an explanation of by-product and co-product methods and a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2013 2012 by-product co-product method by-product co-product method method copper cobalt method copper cobalt revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 3.21 $ 3.21 $ 8.02 $ 3.51 $ 3.51 $ 7.83 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.43 1.35 4.35 1.49 1.39 4.86 cobalt credits b (0.29 ) (0.33 ) royalty on metals 0.07 0.06 0.14 0.07 0.06 0.12 unit net cash costs 1.21 1.41 4.49 1.23 1.45 4.98 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.54 0.48 1.00 0.52 0.47 0.67 noncash and other costs, net 0.06 0.06 0.11 0.09 0.08 0.11 total unit costs 1.81 1.95 5.60 1.84 2.00 5.76 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.09 0.02 0.02 0.09 gross profit per pound $ 1.40 $ 1.26 $ 2.51 $ 1.69 $ 1.53 $ 2.16 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 454 454 336 336 cobalt sales (millions of contained pounds) 25 25 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. lower unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) for our africa mining operations of $1.21 per pound of copper in 2013 , compared with $1.23 per pound of copper in 2012 , primarily reflected higher copper sales volumes, partly offset by lower cobalt credits. assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, and an average cobalt market price of $12 per pound for 2014 , average unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) are expected to approximate $1.28 per pound of copper in 2014 . africa's projected unit net cash costs for 2014 would change by $0.08 per pound for each $2 per pound change in the average price of cobalt during 2014 . 2012 2011 by-product co-product method by-product co-product method method copper cobalt method copper cobalt revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 3.51 $ 3.51 $ 7.83 $ 3.74 $ 3.74 $ 9.99 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.49 1.39 4.86 1.57 1.39 5.58 cobalt credits b (0.33 ) (0.58 ) royalty on metals 0.07 0.06 0.12 0.08 0.07 0.16 unit net cash costs 1.23 1.45 4.98 1.07 1.46 5.74 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.52 0.47 0.67 0.50 0.42 0.78 noncash and other costs, net 0.09 0.08 0.11 0.20 0.18 0.32 total unit costs 1.84 2.00 5.76 1.77 2.06 6.84 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.02 0.02 0.09 0.06 gross profit per pound $ 1.69 $ 1.53 $ 2.16 $ 1.97 $ 1.68 $ 3.21 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 336 336 283 283 cobalt sales (millions of contained pounds) 25 25 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. 105 table of contents b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. unit net cash costs (net of cobalt credits) for our africa mining operations of $1.23 per pound of copper in 2012 were higher than unit net cash costs of $1.07 per pound of copper in 2011 primarily reflecting higher mining and input costs (including sulphuric acid and energy) and lower cobalt credits, partly offset by higher volumes. molybdenum mines we have two wholly owned molybdenum mines in north america the henderson underground mine and the climax open-pit mine, both in colorado. the henderson and climax mines produce high-purity, chemical-grade molybdenum concentrates, which are typically further processed into value-added molybdenum chemical products. the majority of the molybdenum concentrates produced at the henderson and climax mines, as well as from certain of our north and south america copper mines, are processed at our own conversion facilities. operating data. following is summary operating data for the molybdenum operations for the years ended december 31. 2013 2012 2011 molybdenum mines operating data molybdenum production (millions of recoverable pounds) 49 a 41 a 38 ore milled (metric tons per day) b 35,700 20,800 22,300 average molybdenum ore grade (percent) b 0.19 0.23 0.24 a. includes molybdenum production from the climax mine since the start of commercial operations in may 2012. b. the year 2013 reflects operating data for the henderson and climax mines; 2012 and 2011 reflect the operating data of only the henderson mine. market conditions for molybdenum have declined in 2013 resulting from weak demand in the metallurgical sector and increased supply. we continue to monitor market conditions and will adjust our primary molybdenum production as market conditions warrant. refer to "consolidated results" for our consolidated molybdenum operating data, which includes sales of molybdenum produced at our molybdenum mines and at our north and south america copper mines, and refer to "outlook" for projected consolidated molybdenum sales volumes. unit net cash costs. unit net cash costs per pound of molybdenum is a measure intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for our respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 106 table of contents gross profit per pound of molybdenum the following table summarizes the unit net cash costs and gross profit per pound of molybdenum at our henderson and climax molybdenum mines for the year ended december 31, 2013, and at the henderson mine for the years ended december 31, 2012, and 2011. refer to product revenues and production costs for a reconciliation of unit net cash costs per pound to production and delivery costs applicable to sales reported in our consolidated financial statements. 2013 a 2012 a 2011 a revenues, excluding adjustments b $ 11.65 $ 14.27 $ 16.42 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 6.24 6.19 5.46 treatment charges and other 0.91 0.88 0.88 unit net cash costs 7.15 7.07 6.34 depreciation, depletion and amortization 1.68 0.97 0.96 noncash and other costs, net 0.29 0.24 0.04 total unit costs 9.12 8.28 7.34 gross profit per pound $ 2.53 $ 5.99 $ 9.08 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) b 49 34 38 a. the year 2013 reflects operating data for the henderson and climax mines; 2012 and 2011 reflect the results of only the henderson mine. b. revenues reflect sales of the molybdenum mines' production to our molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. on a consolidated basis, realizations are based on actual contract terms of sales made to third parties. as a result, our consolidated average realized price per pound of molybdenum (refer to "consolidated results") will differ from the amounts reported in this table. average unit net cash costs for our molybdenum mines totaled $7.15 per pound of molybdenum in 2013 , compared with henderson's unit net cash costs of $7.07 per pound in 2012 and $6.34 per pound in 2011 . assuming achievement of current sales volume and cost estimates, we estimate unit net cash costs for the molybdenum mines to average $7.25 per pound of molybdenum in 2014 . smelting &amp; refining atlantic copper, our wholly owned subsidiary located in spain, smelts and refines copper concentrates and markets refined copper and precious metals in slimes. during 2013 , atlantic copper purchased 32 percent of its concentrate requirements from our south america mining operations, 16 percent from our indonesia mining operations and 13 percent from our north america copper mines, with the remainder purchased from third parties. through this form of downstream integration, we are assured placement of a significant portion of our concentrate production. smelting and refining charges consist of a base rate and, in certain contracts, price participation based on copper prices. treatment charges for smelting and refining copper concentrates represent a cost to our mining operations, and income to atlantic copper and pt smelting. thus, higher treatment and refining charges benefit our smelter operations and adversely affect our mining operations. our north america copper mines are less significantly affected by changes in treatment and refining charges because these operations are largely integrated with our wholly owned smelter located in miami, arizona. we defer recognizing profits on sales from our mining operations to atlantic copper and on 25 percent of indonesia mining's sales to pt smelting until final sales to third parties occur. changes in these deferrals attributable to variability in intercompany volumes resulted in net reductions to net income attributable to common stockholders of $17 million ( $0.02 per share) in 2013 , compared with net reductions of $80 million ( $0.08 per share) in 2012 and net additions of $156 million ( $0.16 per share) in 2011 . our net deferred profits on inventories at atlantic copper and pt smelting to be recognized in future periods' net income attributable to common stockholders totaled $127 million at december 31, 2013. quarterly variations in ore grades, the timing of intercompany shipments and changes in product prices will result in variability in our net deferred profits and quarterly earnings. 107 table of contents oil and gas operations as further discussed in note 2 , during second-quarter 2013, we acquired oil and gas operations by completing the acquisitions of pxp and mmr (collectively fm o&amp;g). our oil and gas operations provide exposure to energy markets with positive fundamentals, strong margins and cash flows and a large resource base with financially attractive exploration and development opportunities. the portfolio of assets includes oil production facilities and growth potential in the deepwater gom, oil production from the onshore eagle ford shale play in texas, oil production facilities onshore and offshore california, onshore natural gas resources in the haynesville shale play in louisiana, natural gas production from the madden area in central wyoming and an industry-leading position in the emerging shallow-water inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend on the shelf of the gom and onshore in south louisiana. in 2013 , more than 90 percent of our oil and gas revenues were from oil and ngls. exploration, operating and development activities. our oil and gas operations have significant proved, probable and possible reserves with financially attractive organic growth opportunities. the portfolio includes a broad range of development opportunities and high-potential exploration prospects. substantial capital expenditures will continue to be required for our oil and gas exploration and development activities, which are expected to be funded by oil and gas operating cash flows and proceeds of asset sales. operating cash flows from oil and gas operations totaled $1.8 billion for the seven-month period following the acquisition date. capital expenditures for our oil and gas operations totaled $1.45 billion for the seven-month period following the acquisition date, including $503 million incurred for eagle ford, $392 million for the gom (principally deepwater), $171 million for california and $197 million for the inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend. capital expenditures for our oil and gas operations are projected to approximate $3 billion for 2014 , including approximately $1.5 billion incurred for the deepwater gom, $0.4 billion for eagle ford and $0.3 billion for the inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend. gulf of mexico. multiple development and exploration opportunities have been identified in the deepwater gom that are expected to benefit from tie-back opportunities to available production capacity at the fm o&amp;g operated large-scale holstein, marlin and horn mountain deepwater production platforms. holstein, in which we have a 100 percent working interest, is located in green canyon and has production facilities capable of producing in excess of 100 mboe per day. the holstein platform rig refurbishment program was conducted in the second half of 2013 in preparation for drilling and workover activity, which commenced in first-quarter 2014. over the 2014 to 2016 period, we expect to drill seven sidetrack wells from the holstein platform and five subsea tie-back wells from contracted drill ships to enhance production volumes from the spar. near-term tie-back prospects in the holstein area include holstein deep and copper. the holstein deep development, in which we have a 100 percent working interest, is located four miles west of the holstein platform. fm o&amp;g acquired the acreage associated with this development in the 2013 lease sale held by the boem. two successful wells had previously been drilled and encountered approximately 500 net feet of oil pay in recent years. we plan to delineate this prospect during 2014. the copper exploration prospect, in which we have a 100 percent working interest, is located southeast of the holstein field in 4,400 feet of water and is a subsea tie-back opportunity to the holstein facility. the prospect is a holstein analog play with pliocene objectives and has a proposed total depth of 14,500 feet. development of the lucius field in keathley canyon, in which our subsidiary plains offshore has a 23.33 percent working interest, is progressing with first production anticipated in the second half of 2014. the geologic results from the six wells drilled since 2009 confirm a significant oil resource. subsea infrastructure is currently being installed, and topside facilities are more than 90 percent complete and on schedule to be delivered and lifted into place during first-quarter 2014. the sanctioned development of lucius is a subsea development consisting of a truss spar hull located in 7,200 feet of water with a topside capacity of 80 mbbls of oil per day and 450 mmcf of gas per day. during 2014, plains offshore also plans to commence drilling at the tara exploration prospect, in which we have a 100 percent working interest, located northwest of the lucius discovery in keathley canyon in 8,700 feet of water. tara is a lucius analog prospect with pliocene/miocene objectives and has a proposed total depth of 23,000 feet. 108 table of contents eagle ford. we have an attractive position in an oil- and ngl-rich section of the eagle ford shale play in south texas. production from the field has grown significantly in recent years and averaged 46 mboe per day during the seven-month period following the acquisition date of our oil and gas operations in 2013. as part of our capital spending reduction initiatives, we have reduced drilling activity at eagle ford from eight rigs in mid-2013. at december 31, 2013 , there were three drilling rigs operating, which we expect to reduce to two during 2014. at december 31, 2013 , there were 36 wells that were drilling or were drilled and pending completion or connection to pipelines. california. development plans are principally focused on maintaining stable production levels in our long established producing fields principally onshore in california through continued drilling. haynesville. we have rights to a substantial natural gas resource, located in the haynesville shale play in north louisiana. drilling activities in recent years have been significantly reduced to maximize cash flows in a low natural gas price environment and to benefit from potentially higher future natural gas prices. inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous. we have an industry leading position in the emerging shallow-water inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend, located on the shelf of the gom and onshore south louisiana. we have a significant onshore and offshore lease acreage position with high-quality prospects and the potential to develop a significant long-term, low-cost source of natural gas. data from eight wells drilled to date indicate the presence of geologic formations that are analogous to productive formations in the deepwater gom and onshore in the gulf coast region. the near-term focus is on defining the trend onshore. we are currently completing two inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous exploration prospects, including one onshore well, and plan to perform production tests on these two wells and a third well in 2014. the lomond north discovery well within the highlander area, in which we are the operator and have a 72 percent working interest, located in st. martin parish, louisiana, is currently drilling and has encountered gas pay in several wilcox and cretaceous aged sands between 24,000 feet and 29,000 feet. the wireline log and core data obtained from the wilcox and cretaceous sand packages indicated favorable reservoir characteristics with approximately 150 feet of net pay. the lomond north discovery well is currently in completion operations to test lower wilcox and cretaceous objectives found below the salt weld. we have identified multiple exploratory prospects in the highlander area where we control rights to approximately 56,000 gross acres. during 2013 , we commenced completion operations at davy jones no. 2, in which we have a 75 percent working interest, located on south marsh island block 234. flow testing is anticipated in the first half of 2014. during 2014, we also plan to complete the blackbeard west no.2 well, in which we have a 92 percent working interest, located on ship shoal block 188. the lineham creek exploration well, in which we have a 36 percent working interest, located in cameron parish, has been suspended while future plans are being developed. 109 table of contents financial and operating data. following is summary operating results for the oil and gas operations: seven months from june 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013 sales volumes oil (mmbbls) 26.6 natural gas (bcf) 54.2 ngls (mmbbls) 2.4 mmboe 38.1 average realizations a oil (per barrel) $ 98.32 natural gas (per mmbtu) $ 3.99 ngls (per barrel) $ 38.20 gross profit per boe realized revenues a $ 76.87 less: cash production costs a 17.14 cash operating margin a 59.73 less: depreciation, depletion and amortization 35.81 less: accretion and other costs 0.79 revenue adjustments for unrealized losses on derivative contracts (8.20 ) other net adjustments 0.04 gross profit $ 14.97 a. cash operating margin for our oil and gas operations reflects realized revenues less cash production costs. realized revenues exclude net unrealized and noncash realized losses on derivative contracts and cash production costs exclude accretion and other costs. for reconciliations of realized revenues (including average realizations for oil, natural gas and ngls) and cash production costs per boe to revenues and production and delivery costs reported in our consolidated financial statements, refer to "product revenues and production costs." realized revenues for our oil and gas operations averaged $76.87 per boe and cash production costs averaged $17.14 per boe for the seven-month period following the acquisition date. based on current sales volume and cost estimates, cash production costs are expected to approximate $20 per boe for 2014 , primarily reflecting the impact of lower estimated volumes from planned downtime associated with platform maintenance and subsea tie-back upgrades on the marlin facility in the gom during third-quarter 2014. our average realized price for crude oil was $98.32 per barrel for the seven-month period following the acquisition date. excluding the impact of realized derivative contracts, our average realized price for crude oil was $99.67 per barrel for the seven-month period following the acquisition date ( 92 percent of the average brent crude oil price of $108.66 per barrel), reflecting quality and location differentials. our average realized price for natural gas was $3.99 per mmbtu for the seven-month period following the acquisition date. excluding the impact of realized derivative contracts, our average realized price for natural gas was $3.73 per mmbtu for the seven-month period following the acquisition date, compared with nymex natural gas prices for the june through december 2013 contracts, which averaged $3.67 per mmbtu, reflecting quality and location differentials. the following table presents average sales volumes per day by region for our oil and gas operations: seven months from june 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013 sales volumes (mboe per day): gom a 72 eagle ford 46 california 39 haynesville/madden/other 21 total oil and gas operations 178 110 table of contents a. includes sales from properties on the gom shelf and in the deepwater gom. production from the gom shelf totaled 13 mboe per day (18 percent of the gom total). daily sales volumes averaged 178 mboe for the seven-month period following the acquisition date, including 124 mbbls of crude oil per day, 254 mmcf of natural gas per day and 11 mbbls of ngls per day. sales volumes from oil and gas operations are expected to average 166 mboe per day for the year 2014, comprised of approximately 70 percent oil, 24 percent natural gas and 6 percent ngls. sales volumes for the year 2014 include the impacts of planned platform maintenance and subsea tie-back upgrades on the marlin facility in the gom during third-quarter 2014. capital resources and liquidity our consolidated operating cash flows vary with prices realized from copper, gold, molybdenum and oil, our sales volumes, production costs, income taxes, other working capital changes and other factors. we have taken steps to reduce or defer capital expenditures, operating, exploration and other costs and are targeting reductions in total debt to $12 billion by year-end 2016. we will continue to review our portfolio of assets for opportunities to accelerate our deleveraging plans through potential asset sales, joint venture transactions or further adjustments to capital spending plans. cash following is a summary of the u.s. and international components of consolidated cash and cash equivalents, including cash available to the parent company, net of noncontrolling interests' share, taxes and other costs at december 31 (in billions): 2013 2012 cash at domestic companies $ 0.4 $ 1.3 cash at international operations 1.6 2.4 total consolidated cash and cash equivalents 2.0 3.7 less: noncontrolling interests' share (0.6 ) (0.8 ) cash, net of noncontrolling interests' share 1.4 2.9 less: withholding taxes and other (0.1 ) (0.2 ) net cash available $ 1.3 $ 2.7 cash held at our international operations is generally used to support our foreign operations' capital expenditures, operating expenses, working capital and other tax payments or other cash needs. management believes that sufficient liquidity is available in the u.s. from cash balances and availability from our revolving credit facility and uncommitted lines of credit (refer to note 8 ). with the exception of tfm, we have not elected to permanently reinvest earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, and we have recorded deferred tax liabilities for foreign earnings that are available to be repatriated to the u.s. from time to time, our foreign subsidiaries distribute earnings to the u.s. through dividends that are subject to applicable withholding taxes and noncontrolling interests' share. debt at december 31, 2013, we had total debt of $20.7 billion . following is a summary of total debt and related weighted-average interest rates at december 31, 2013 (in billions, except percentages): weighted- average interest rate acquisition-related debt $ 10.5 a 3.0% assumed debt of pxp 6.7 6.8% fcx's previously existing debt 3.5 3.4% $ 20.7 4.2% a. proceeds from the issuance of $6.5 billion of senior notes and a $4.0 billion unsecured term loan were used to finance the acquisitions of pxp and mmr, repay certain pxp debt and for general corporate purposes. refer to note 8 for further discussion. 111 table of contents based on current sales volume and cost estimates and assuming average prices of $3.25 per pound of copper, $1,200 per ounce of gold, $9.50 per pound of molybdenum and $105 per barrel of brent crude oil, we are targeting reductions in total debt to $12 billion by year-end 2016, most of which is projected to occur in 2016. we will continue to review our portfolio of assets and will consider opportunities to accelerate our deleveraging plans through potential asset sales, joint venture transactions or further adjustments to capital spending plans. upon closing of the pxp acquisition, we replaced our revolving credit facility with a new $3.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which is available through may 2018. at december 31, 2013 , we had no borrowings and $46 million of letters of credit issued under our revolving credit facility, resulting in availability of $3.0 billion. in 2013, we entered into uncommitted unsecured lines of credit with three financial institutions totaling $450 million, which have terms and pricing that are more favorable than our revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2013, there were no borrowings drawn on these lines of credit. cerro verde expects to complete bank financing to fund a portion of its current expansion project in first-quarter 2014. operating activities we generated consolidated operating cash flows totaling $6.1 billion in 2013 (net of $377 million for working capital uses and changes in other tax payments) , $3.8 billion in 2012 (net of $1.4 billion for working capital uses and changes in other tax payments) and $6.6 billion in 2011 (net of $461 million for working capital uses and changes in other tax payments). consolidated operating cash flows for 2013 benefited from our oil and gas operations (which generated $1.8 billion of operating cash flows for the seven-month period following the acquisition date), higher copper and gold sales volumes and a decrease in working capital uses and changes in other tax payments, primarily associated with changes in accrued income taxes, inventories and accounts receivable. partly offsetting these increases was the impact of lower metals price realizations. lower consolidated operating cash flows for 2012 , compared with 2011 , primarily reflected lower copper and gold sales volumes, lower copper price realizations and an increase in working capital uses and changes in other tax payments, primarily associated with changes in accounts receivable, partly offset by timing of payments for accounts payable and accrued liabilities. based on current operating plans and subject to future copper, gold, molybdenum and crude oil prices, we expect estimated consolidated operating cash flows for the year 2014 , plus available cash and availability under our revolving credit facility and uncommitted lines of credit, to be sufficient to fund our budgeted capital expenditures, dividends, noncontrolling interest distributions and other cash requirements for the year. refer to outlook for further discussion of projected consolidated operating cash flows for the year 2014 . investing activities capital expenditures. capital expenditures, including capitalized interest, totaled $5.3 billion in 2013 , including $2.3 billion for major projects at mining operations and $1.45 billion for oil and gas operations for the seven-month period following the acquisition date. capital expenditures, including capitalized interest, totaled $3.5 billion in 2012 ($2.2 billion for major projects at mining operations) and $2.5 billion in 2011 ($1.4 billion for major projects at mining operations). increased capital expenditures for major projects at mining operations in 2013 were primarily associated with the expansion projects at morenci and cerro verde and our underground development activities at grasberg, partly offset by decreased spending for the expansion at tenke, which was completed in early 2013, and at the climax mine, which began commercial operations in may 2012. refer to operations for further discussion. capital expenditures are expected to approximate $7 billion for the year 2014 , including $3 billion for major projects at our mining operations and $3 billion for our oil and gas operations. major projects at our mining operations for 2014 primarily include the ongoing expansion projects at morenci and cerro verde and underground development activities at grasberg. capital spending plans remain under review and will be revised as market conditions warrant. refer to "operations" for further discussion. 112 table of contents acquisitions. in second-quarter 2013, we paid $3.5 billion in cash (net of $315 million of cash acquired) to acquire pxp and $1.6 billion in cash (net of $29 million of cash acquired) to acquire mmr. in first-quarter 2013, we paid $348 million (net of $34 million of cash acquired) to acquire a cobalt chemical refinery in kokkola, finland, and the related sales and marketing business. the acquisition was funded 70 percent by us and 30 percent by lundin mining corporation, our joint venture partner. refer to note 2 for further discussion of these acquisitions. financing activities debt transactions. during 2013, we sold $6.5 billion of senior notes in four tranches with a weighted-average interest rate of 3.9 percent, and we borrowed $4.0 billion under an unsecured bank term loan with an interest rate of libor plus 1.50 percent. net proceeds from these borrowings were used to fund the acquisitions of pxp and mmr, repay certain debt of pxp and for general corporate purposes. also in 2013, we redeemed the $299 million of mmr's outstanding 11.875% senior notes due 2014 and $400 million of pxp's 7 5 / 8 % senior notes due 2018 assumed in the acquisitions. during 2012, we sold $3.0 billion of senior notes in three tranches with a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 3.0 percent. net proceeds from this offering, plus cash on hand, were used to redeem the remaining $3.0 billion of our 8.375% senior notes. during 2011, we redeemed the remaining $1.1 billion of our outstanding 8.25% senior notes. in addition, we made open-market purchases of $35 million of our 9.5% senior notes and repaid the remaining $84 million of our 8.75% senior notes. refer to note 8 for further discussion of these transactions. dividends and other equity transactions. we paid dividends on our common stock totaling $2.3 billion in 2013 (including $1.0 billion for a supplemental dividend of $1.00 per share paid in july 2013), $1.1 billion in 2012 and $1.4 billion in 2011 (including $474 million for a supplemental dividend paid in june 2011). the current annual dividend rate for our common stock is $1.25 per share ( $0.3125 per share quarterly). based on outstanding common shares of 1.0 billion at december 31, 2013, and the current dividend rate, our estimated regular common stock dividend for 2014 approximates $1.3 billion. the declaration of dividends is at the discretion of the board and will depend upon our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the board. the board will continue to review our financial policy on an ongoing basis. cash dividends and other distributions paid to noncontrolling interests totaled $256 million in 2013 , $113 million in 2012 and $391 million in 2011 . higher noncontrolling interest payments in 2013, compared with 2012, primarily reflected higher dividends to the noncontrolling interest holders of el abra and candelaria. lower noncontrolling interest payments in 2012, compared with 2011, primarily reflected lower dividends to the noncontrolling interest holders of pt-fi as a result of lower production in 2012. these payments will vary based on the operating results and cash requirements of our consolidated subsidiaries. conversion of mmr's 8% convertible perpetual preferred stock and 5.75% convertible perpetual preferred stock, series 1 required cash payments of $228 million during 2013 . refer to note 2 for further discussion. 113 table of contents contractual obligations we have contractual and other long-term obligations, including debt maturities, which we expect to fund with available cash, projected operating cash flows, availability under our revolving credit facility or future financing transactions, if necessary. a summary of these various obligations at december 31, 2013 , follows (in millions): total 2014 2015 to 2016 2017 to 2018 thereafter debt maturities $ 20,054 $ 312 $ 1,803 $ 4,400 $ 13,539 scheduled interest payment obligations a 8,880 852 1,668 1,575 4,785 aro and environmental obligations b 7,237 247 449 423 6,118 take-or-pay contracts c 4,710 1,379 2,176 828 327 operating lease obligations 336 45 84 75 132 total d $ 41,217 $ 2,835 $ 6,180 $ 7,301 $ 24,901 a. scheduled interest payment obligations were calculated using stated coupon rates for fixed-rate debt and interest rates applicable at december 31, 2013 , for variable-rate debt. b. represents estimated cash payments, on an undiscounted and unescalated basis, associated with aro and environmental activities (including $1.8 billion for our recently acquired oil and gas operations). the timing and the amount of these payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and timing of aro activities, the settlement of environmental matters and as actual spending occurs. refer to note 12 for additional discussion of environmental and aro matters. c. represents contractual obligations for purchases of goods or service agreements enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including minimum commitments for two deepwater drillships expected to be delivered in late 2014 and early 2015 for the gom drilling campaign ( $1.5 billion ), transportation services ( $853 million ), the procurement of copper concentrates ( $800 million ), electricity ( $471 million ) and deferred premium costs and future interest expected to be accrued on the crude oil derivative contracts ( $454 million ). some of our take-or-pay contracts are settled based on the prevailing market rate for the service or commodity purchased, and in some cases, the amount of the actual obligation may change over time because of market conditions. drillship obligations provide for an operating rate over the contractual term upon delivery of the drillship. transportation obligations are primarily for south america and pt-fi contracted ocean freight. obligations for copper concentrates provide for deliveries of specified volumes to atlantic copper at market-based prices. electricity obligations are primarily for contractual minimum demand at the south america and tenke mines. d. this table excludes certain other obligations in our consolidated balance sheets, such as estimated funding for pension obligations as the funding may vary from year to year based on changes in the fair value of plan assets and actuarial assumptions, accrued liabilities totaling $87 million that relate to unrecognized tax benefits where the timing of settlement is not determinable, and other less significant amounts.this table also excludes purchase orders for the purchase of inventory and other goods and services, as purchase orders typically represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. in addition to our debt maturities and other contractual obligations discussed above, we have other commitments, which we expect to fund with available cash, projected operating cash flows, available credit facilities or future financing transactions, if necessary. these include (i) pt-fi's commitment to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the freeport partnership fund for community development, (ii) tfm's commitment to provide 0.3 percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations and (iii) other commercial commitments, including standby letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees. refer to notes 12 , and 13 for further discussion. contingencies environmental the cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. at december 31, 2013 , we had $1.2 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for environmental obligations attributed to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental obligations that are considered probable based on specific facts and circumstances. during 2013 , we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) of $595 million for programs to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations, compared to $612 million in 2012 and $387 million in 2011 . the increase in environmental cost in 2012, compared with 2011, primarily relates to higher expenditures for land and settlements of environmental matters. for 2014 , we expect to incur approximately $475 million of aggregate environmental 114 table of contents capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which are part of our overall 2014 operating budget. the timing and amount of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and timing of reclamation activities, the settlement of environmental matters and as actual spending occurs. refer to note 12 for further information about environmental regulation, including significant environmental matters. asset retirement obligations we recognize aros as liabilities when incurred, with the initial measurement at fair value. these obligations, which are initially estimated based on discounted cash flow estimates, are accreted to full value over time through charges to income. mine reclamation costs for disturbances are recorded as an aro in the period of disturbance. oil and gas plugging and abandonment costs are recognized as an aro and as a related asset retirement cost (included in oil and gas properties) in the period in which the well is drilled or acquired. our cost estimates are reflected on a third-party cost basis and comply with our legal obligation to retire tangible, long-lived assets. at december 31, 2013 , we had $2.3 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheets for aros, including $1.1 billion related to our oil and gas properties. spending on aros totaled $107 million in 2013 , $47 million in 2012 and $49 million in 2011 . the increase in aro spending in 2013, compared to 2012 and 2011, primarily reflected $64 million for our oil and gas operations for the seven-month period following the acquisition date. for 2014 , we expect to incur approximately $115 million for aggregate aro payments. refer to note 12 for further discussion. litigation and other contingencies refer to note 12 and "legal proceedings" contained in part i, item 3 of our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2013 , for further discussion of contingencies associated with legal proceedings and other matters. disclosures about market risks commodity price risk metals. our consolidated revenues from our mining operations include the sale of copper concentrates, copper cathodes, copper rod, gold, molybdenum and other metals by our north and south america mines, the sale of copper concentrates (which also contain significant quantities of gold and silver) by our indonesia mining operations, the sale of copper cathodes and cobalt hydroxide by our africa mining operations, the sale of molybdenum in various forms by our molybdenum operations, and the sale of copper cathodes, copper anodes and gold in anodes and slimes by atlantic copper. our financial results can vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. world market prices for these commodities have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. because we cannot control the price of our products, the key measures that management focuses on in operating our mining business are sales volumes, unit net cash costs and consolidated operating cash flow. refer to outlook for further discussion of projected sales volumes, unit net cash costs for our copper mining operations and consolidated operating cash flows for 2014 . for 2013 , 49 percent of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, 28 percent as cathode and 23 percent as rod. substantially all of our copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) based primarily on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices. we receive market prices based on prices in the specified future period, which results in price fluctuations recorded through revenues until the date of settlement. we record revenues and invoice customers at the time of shipment based on then-current lme prices, which results in an embedded derivative on our provisionally priced concentrate and cathode sales that is adjusted to fair value through earnings each period, using the period-end forward prices, until the date of final pricing. to the extent final prices are higher or lower than what was recorded on a provisional basis, an increase or decrease to revenues is recorded each reporting period until the date of final pricing. accordingly, in times of rising copper prices, our revenues benefit from adjustments to the final pricing of provisionally priced sales pursuant to contracts entered into in prior periods; in times of falling copper prices, the opposite occurs. 115 table of contents following are the (unfavorable) favorable impacts of net adjustments to the prior years' provisionally priced copper sales for the years ended december 31 (in millions, except per share amounts): 2013 2012 2011 revenues $ (26 ) $ 101 $ (12 ) net income attributable to fcx common stockholders $ (12 ) $ 43 $ (5 ) net income per share of fcx common stock $ (0.01 ) $ 0.05 $ (0.01 ) at december 31, 2013 , we had provisionally priced copper sales at our copper mining operations, primarily south america and indonesia, totaling 481 million pounds of copper (net of intercompany sales and noncontrolling interests) recorded at an average price of $3.34 per pound, subject to final pricing over the next several months. we estimate that each $0.05 change in the price realized from the december 31, 2013 , provisional price recorded would have a net impact on our 2014 consolidated revenues of approximately $32 million ( $16 million to net income attributable to common stockholders). the lme spot copper price closed at $3.25 per pound on february 14, 2014 . oil &amp; gas. our financial results from oil and gas operations may vary with fluctuations in crude oil prices and, to a lesser extent natural gas prices. market prices for crude oil and natural gas have fluctuated historically and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. because we cannot control the price of our products, including oil and gas, the key measures that management focuses on in operating our oil and gas business are sales volumes, cash production costs per boe and operating cash flows. refer to outlook for further discussion of projected sales volumes, cash production costs per boe and operating cash flows for 2014. our oil and gas operations use various derivative contracts to manage exposure to commodity price risk for a substantial portion of its oil and gas production through 2015. in connection with the acquisition of pxp, we assumed derivative contracts for 2013, 2014 and 2015 that consisted of crude oil options, and crude oil and natural gas swaps. these crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts are not designated as hedging instruments; accordingly, they are recorded at fair value with the mark-to-market gains and losses recorded in revenues each period. net charges to revenues for realized losses on crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts totaled $22 million ($14 million to net income attributable to fcx common stockholders or $0.01 per share) and net unrealized and noncash realized losses on crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts totaled $312 million ( $194 million to net income attributable to fcx common stockholders or $0.19 per share) for the seven months from june 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013 . as of december 31, 2013, our crude oil and natural gas derivatives consisted of crude oil put options and natural gas swaps. following presents the estimated (increase) decrease in the net liability on our balance sheet of a 10 percent change in brent crude oil and nymex forward natural gas prices on the fair values of outstanding crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts, compared with the forward prices used to determine the fair values at december 31, 2013 (in millions): 10% increase 10% decrease crude oil puts $ (72 ) $ 146 natural gas swaps (14 ) 14 $ (86 ) $ 160 at december 31, 2013, premium settlements of crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts are expected to result in realized losses of approximately $240 million for the year 2014. refer to note 14 for further discussion of our crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts. our crude oil derivative arrangements provide us protection on the underlying volumes if prices decline below the prices at which these derivatives are set. 116 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk the functional currency for most of our operations is the u.s. dollar. all of our revenues and a significant portion of our costs are denominated in u.s. dollars; however, some costs and certain asset and liability accounts are denominated in local currencies, including the indonesian rupiah, australian dollar, chilean peso, peruvian nuevo sol and euro. generally, our results are positively affected when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to those foreign currencies and adversely affected when the u.s. dollar weakens in relation to those foreign currencies. following is a summary of estimated annual payments and the impact of changes in foreign currency rates on our annual operating costs: exchange rate per $1 at december 31, estimated annual payments 10% change in exchange rate (in millions) a 2013 2012 2011 (in local currency) (in millions) b increase decrease indonesia rupiah 12,128 9,622 9,060 7.5 trillion $ 618 $ (56 ) $ 69 australian dollar 1.12 0.93 0.98 300 million $ 267 $ (24 ) $ 30 south america chilean peso 525 480 519 350 billion $ 667 $ (61 ) $ 74 peruvian nuevo sol 2.80 2.55 2.70 570 million $ 204 $ (19 ) $ 23 atlantic copper euro 0.73 0.76 0.77 130 million $ 179 $ (16 ) $ 20 a. reflects the estimated impact on annual operating costs assuming a 10 percent increase or decrease in the exchange rate reported at december 31, 2013 . b. based on december 31, 2013 , exchange rates. interest rate risk at december 31, 2013 , we had total debt maturities of $20.1 billion, of which approximately 20 percent was variable-rate debt with interest rates based on the london interbank offered rate or the euro interbank offered rate. the table below presents average interest rates for our scheduled maturities of principal for our outstanding debt (excluding fair value adjustments) and the related fair values at december 31, 2013 , (in millions, except percentages): 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter fair value fixed-rate debt $ 5 $ 502 $ 1 $ 500 $ 1,500 $ 13,397 $ 16,345 average interest rate 6.8 % 1.4 % 6.7 % 2.2 % 2.4 % 5.4 % 4.9 % variable-rate debt $ 307 $ 550 $ 750 $ 200 $ 2,200 $ 142 $ 4,142 average interest rate 1.6 % 1.7 % 1.7 % 1.7 % 1.7 % 3.8 % 1.7 % new accounting standards we do not expect the provisions of recently issued accounting standards to have a significant impact on our future financial statements and disclosures. off-balance sheet arrangements refer to note 13 for discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements. 117 table of contents product revenues and production costs mining product revenues and unit net cash costs unit net cash costs per pound of copper and molybdenum are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash-generating capacity of our mining operations expressed on a basis relating to the primary metal product for the respective operations. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our mining operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. this measure is presented by other metals mining companies, although our measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. we present gross profit per pound of copper in the following tables using both a by-product method and a co-product method. we use the by-product method in our presentation of gross profit per pound of copper because (i) the majority of our revenues are copper revenues, (ii) we mine ore, which contains copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals, (iii) it is not possible to specifically assign all of our costs to revenues from the copper, gold, molybdenum and other metals we produce, (iv) it is the method used to compare mining operations in certain industry publications and (v) it is the method used by our management and the board to monitor operations. in the co-product method presentation below, shared costs are allocated to the different products based on their relative revenue values, which will vary to the extent our metals sales volumes and realized prices change. we show revenue adjustments for prior period open sales as separate line items. because these adjustments do not result from current period sales, we have reflected these separately from revenues on current period sales. noncash and other costs consist of items such as stock-based compensation costs, start-up costs, write-offs of equipment and/or unusual charges. they are removed from site production and delivery costs in the calculation of unit net cash costs. as discussed above, gold, molybdenum and other metal revenues at copper mines are reflected as credits against site production and delivery costs in the by-product method. the following schedules for our mining operations are presentations under both the by-product and co-product methods together with reconciliations to amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. oil &amp; gas product revenues and cash production costs per unit realized revenues and cash production costs per unit are measures intended to provide investors with information about the cash operating margin of our oil and gas operations expressed on a basis relating to each product sold. we use this measure for the same purpose and for monitoring operating performance by our oil and gas operations. this information differs from measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance determined in accordance with u.s. gaap. our measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. we show revenue adjustments from derivative contracts as separate line items. because these adjustments do not result from oil and gas sales, these gains and losses have been reflected separately from revenues on current period sales. additionally, accretion and other costs are removed from production and delivery costs in the calculation of cash production costs per boe. the following schedules include calculations of oil and gas product revenues and cash production costs together with a reconciliation to amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. 118 table of contents north america copper mines product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2013 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper molybdenum a other b total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,752 $ 4,752 $ 349 $ 106 $ 5,207 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2,828 2,744 123 74 2,941 by-product credits (342 ) treatment charges 155 151 4 155 net cash costs 2,641 2,895 123 78 3,096 depreciation, depletion and amortization 391 378 7 6 391 noncash and other costs, net 202 c 200 1 1 202 total costs 3,234 3,473 131 85 3,689 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (4 ) (4 ) (4 ) gross profit $ 1,514 $ 1,275 $ 218 $ 21 $ 1,514 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,416 1,416 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) a 32 gross profit per pound of copper and molybdenum: revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.36 $ 3.36 $ 10.79 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2.00 1.94 3.79 by-product credits (0.24 ) treatment charges 0.11 0.11 unit net cash costs 1.87 2.05 3.79 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.28 0.27 0.22 noncash and other costs, net 0.14 c 0.14 0.04 total unit costs 2.29 2.46 4.05 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales gross profit per pound $ 1.07 $ 0.90 $ 6.74 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,207 $ 2,941 $ 391 treatment charges 155 net noncash and other costs 202 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (4 ) eliminations and other (20 ) (32 ) 11 north america copper mines 5,183 3,266 402 other mining &amp; eliminations d 13,118 7,885 1,020 total mining 18,301 11,151 1,422 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations 2,616 682 1,364 corporate, other &amp; eliminations 4 7 11 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,921 $ 11,840 $ 2,797 a. reflects sales of molybdenum by certain of the north america copper mines to our molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. b. includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs . c. includes $76 million ($0.05 per pound) associated with updated mine plans at morenci that resulted in a loss in recoverable copper in leach stockpiles. d. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 119 table of contents north america copper mines product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper molybdenum a other b total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,908 $ 4,908 $ 468 $ 91 $ 5,467 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2,572 2,357 227 60 2,644 by-product credits (487 ) treatment charges 161 147 14 161 net cash costs 2,246 2,504 227 74 2,805 depreciation, depletion and amortization 346 323 18 5 346 noncash and other costs, net 138 134 3 1 138 total costs 2,730 2,961 248 80 3,289 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 4 4 4 gross profit $ 2,182 $ 1,951 $ 220 $ 11 $ 2,182 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,347 1,347 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) a 36 gross profit per pound of copper and molybdenum: revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.64 $ 3.64 $ 13.00 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.91 1.75 6.32 by-product credits (0.36 ) treatment charges 0.12 0.11 unit net cash costs 1.67 1.86 6.32 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.26 0.24 0.48 noncash and other costs, net 0.10 0.10 0.09 total unit costs 2.03 2.20 6.89 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.01 0.01 gross profit per pound $ 1.62 $ 1.45 $ 6.11 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,467 $ 2,644 $ 346 treatment charges 161 net noncash and other costs 138 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 4 eliminations and other 15 (10 ) 14 north america copper mines 5,486 2,933 360 other mining &amp; eliminations c 12,517 7,446 812 total mining 18,003 10,379 1,172 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations corporate, other &amp; eliminations 7 3 7 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,010 $ 10,382 $ 1,179 a. reflects sales of molybdenum by certain of the north america copper mines to our molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. b. includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. c. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 120 table of contents north america copper mines product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper molybdenum a other b total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,968 $ 4,968 $ 546 $ 111 $ 5,625 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2,213 1,987 238 46 2,271 by-product credits (599 ) treatment charges 138 132 6 138 net cash costs 1,752 2,119 238 52 2,409 depreciation, depletion and amortization 264 247 13 4 264 noncash and other costs, net 166 161 4 1 166 total costs 2,182 2,527 255 57 2,839 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) gross profit $ 2,785 $ 2,440 $ 291 $ 54 $ 2,785 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,244 1,244 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) a 35 gross profit per pound of copper and molybdenum: revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.99 $ 3.99 $ 15.72 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.78 1.60 6.86 by-product credits (0.48 ) treatment charges 0.11 0.10 unit net cash costs 1.41 1.70 6.86 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.21 0.20 0.39 noncash and other costs, net 0.13 0.13 0.09 total unit costs 1.75 2.03 7.34 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales gross profit per pound $ 2.24 $ 1.96 $ 8.38 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,625 $ 2,271 $ 264 treatment charges 138 net noncash and other costs 166 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (1 ) eliminations and other 5 (10 ) 14 north america copper mines 5,629 2,565 278 other mining &amp; eliminations c 15,243 7,336 737 total mining 20,872 9,901 1,015 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations corporate, other &amp; eliminations 8 (3 ) 7 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. reflects sales of molybdenum by certain of the north america copper mines to our molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. b. includes gold and silver product revenues and production costs. c. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 121 table of contents south america mining product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2013 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper other total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,366 $ 4,366 $ 374 a $ 4,740 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2,023 b 1,875 170 2,045 by-product credits (352 ) treatment charges 226 226 226 net cash costs 1,897 2,101 170 2,271 depreciation, depletion and amortization 346 323 23 346 noncash and other costs, net 49 44 5 49 total costs 2,292 2,468 198 2,666 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (28 ) (28 ) (28 ) gross profit $ 2,046 $ 1,870 $ 176 $ 2,046 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,325 1,325 gross profit per pound of copper: revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.30 $ 3.30 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.53 b 1.42 by-product credits (0.27 ) treatment charges 0.17 0.17 unit net cash costs 1.43 1.59 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.26 0.24 noncash and other costs, net 0.04 0.03 total unit costs 1.73 1.86 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (0.03 ) (0.03 ) gross profit per pound $ 1.54 $ 1.41 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 4,740 $ 2,045 $ 346 treatment charges (226 ) net noncash and other costs 49 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (28 ) eliminations and other (1 ) (25 ) south america mining 4,485 2,069 346 other mining &amp; eliminations c 13,816 9,082 1,076 total mining 18,301 11,151 1,422 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations 2,616 682 1,364 corporate, other &amp; eliminations 4 7 11 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,921 $ 11,840 $ 2,797 a. includes gold sales of 102 thousand ounces ( $1,350 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 4.1 million ounces ( $21.88 per ounce average realized price). also reflects sales of molybdenum produced by cerro verde to our molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. b. includes charges totaling $36 million ($0.03 per pound) associated with labor agreement costs at cerro verde. c. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 122 table of contents south america mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper other total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,462 $ 4,462 $ 355 a $ 4,817 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,995 b 1,846 173 2,019 by-product credits (331 ) treatment charges 202 202 202 net cash costs 1,866 2,048 173 2,221 depreciation, depletion and amortization 287 272 15 287 noncash and other costs, net 110 75 35 110 total costs 2,263 2,395 223 2,618 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 106 106 106 gross profit $ 2,305 $ 2,173 $ 132 $ 2,305 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,245 1,245 gross profit per pound of copper: revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.58 $ 3.58 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.60 b 1.49 by-product credits (0.26 ) treatment charges 0.16 0.16 unit net cash costs 1.50 1.65 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.23 0.22 noncash and other costs, net 0.09 0.06 total unit costs 1.82 1.93 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.09 0.09 gross profit per pound $ 1.85 $ 1.74 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 4,817 $ 2,019 $ 287 treatment charges (202 ) net noncash and other costs 110 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 106 eliminations and other 7 (15 ) south america mining 4,728 2,114 287 other mining &amp; eliminations c 13,275 8,265 885 total mining 18,003 10,379 1,172 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations corporate, other &amp; eliminations 7 3 7 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,010 $ 10,382 $ 1,179 a. includes gold sales of 82 thousand ounces ( $1,673 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 3.2 million ounces ( $30.33 per ounce average realized price). also reflects sales of molybdenum produced by cerro verde to our molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. b. includes $16 million ($0.01 per pound) associated with labor agreement costs at candelaria. c. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 123 table of contents south america mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper other total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 4,989 $ 4,989 $ 477 a $ 5,466 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,826 b 1,679 172 1,851 by-product credits (452 ) treatment charges 219 219 219 net cash costs 1,593 1,898 172 2,070 depreciation, depletion and amortization 258 242 16 258 noncash and other costs, net 82 75 7 82 total costs 1,933 2,215 195 2,410 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 15 (4 ) 19 15 gross profit $ 3,071 $ 2,770 $ 301 $ 3,071 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 1,322 1,322 gross profit per pound of copper: revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.77 $ 3.77 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.38 b 1.27 by-product credits (0.35 ) treatment charges 0.17 0.17 unit net cash costs 1.20 1.44 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.20 0.18 noncash and other costs, net 0.06 0.05 total unit costs 1.46 1.67 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.01 gross profit per pound $ 2.32 $ 2.10 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,466 $ 1,851 $ 258 treatment charges (219 ) net noncash and other costs 82 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 15 eliminations and other (4 ) (28 ) south america mining 5,258 1,905 258 other mining &amp; eliminations c 15,614 7,996 757 total mining 20,872 9,901 1,015 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations corporate, other &amp; eliminations 8 (3 ) 7 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. includes gold sales of 101 thousand ounces ( $1,580 per ounce average realized price) and silver sales of 3.2 million ounces ( $36.81 per ounce average realized price). also reflects sales of molybdenum produced by cerro verde to our molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. b. includes $50 million ($0.04 per pound) for bonuses paid at cerro verde and el abra pursuant to new labor agreement. c. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 124 table of contents indonesia mining product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2013 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper gold silver total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 2,903 $ 2,903 $ 1,438 $ 61 a $ 4,402 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2,174 1,434 710 30 2,174 gold and silver credits (1,497 ) treatment charges 205 135 67 3 205 royalty on metals 109 72 36 1 109 net cash costs 991 1,641 813 34 2,488 depreciation and amortization 247 163 80 4 247 noncash and other costs, net 116 77 38 1 116 total costs 1,354 1,881 931 39 2,851 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 1 1 (2 ) (1 ) pt smelting intercompany loss (19 ) (12 ) (6 ) (1 ) (19 ) gross profit $ 1,531 $ 1,011 $ 499 $ 21 $ 1,531 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 885 885 gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,096 gross profit per pound of copper/per ounce of gold: revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.28 $ 3.28 $ 1,312 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2.46 1.62 648 gold and silver credits (1.69 ) treatment charges 0.23 0.15 61 royalty on metals 0.12 0.08 33 unit net cash costs 1.12 1.85 742 depreciation and amortization 0.28 0.19 73 noncash and other costs, net 0.13 0.09 35 total unit costs 1.53 2.13 850 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (1 ) pt smelting intercompany loss (0.02 ) (0.01 ) (6 ) gross profit per pound/ounce $ 1.73 $ 1.14 $ 455 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 4,402 $ 2,174 $ 247 treatment charges (205 ) royalty on metals (109 ) net noncash and other costs 116 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (1 ) pt smelting intercompany loss 19 indonesia mining 4,087 2,309 247 other mining &amp; eliminations b 14,214 8,842 1,175 total mining 18,301 11,151 1,422 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations 2,616 682 1,364 corporate, other &amp; eliminations 4 7 11 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,921 $ 11,840 $ 2,797 a. includes silver sales of 2.9 million ounces ( $21.32 per ounce average realized price). b. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 125 table of contents indonesia mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper gold silver total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 2,564 $ 2,564 $ 1,522 $ 64 a $ 4,150 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2,230 1,378 818 34 2,230 gold and silver credits (1,589 ) treatment charges 152 94 56 2 152 royalty on metals 93 58 34 1 93 net cash costs 886 1,530 908 37 2,475 depreciation and amortization 212 131 78 3 212 noncash and other costs, net 82 50 30 2 82 total costs 1,180 1,711 1,016 42 2,769 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 13 13 3 16 pt smelting intercompany loss (37 ) (23 ) (13 ) (1 ) (37 ) gross profit $ 1,360 $ 843 $ 496 $ 21 $ 1,360 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 716 716 gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 915 gross profit per pound of copper/per ounce of gold: revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.58 $ 3.58 $ 1,664 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 3.12 1.93 894 gold and silver credits (2.22 ) treatment charges 0.21 0.13 61 royalty on metals 0.13 0.08 38 unit net cash costs 1.24 2.14 993 depreciation and amortization 0.30 0.18 85 noncash and other costs, net 0.11 0.07 33 total unit costs 1.65 2.39 1,111 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.02 0.02 3 pt smelting intercompany loss (0.05 ) (0.03 ) (15 ) gross profit per pound/ounce $ 1.90 $ 1.18 $ 541 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 4,150 $ 2,230 $ 212 treatment charges (152 ) royalty on metals (93 ) net noncash and other costs 82 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 16 pt smelting intercompany loss 37 indonesia mining 3,921 2,349 212 other mining &amp; eliminations b 14,082 8,030 960 total mining 18,003 10,379 1,172 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations corporate, other &amp; eliminations 7 3 7 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,010 $ 10,382 $ 1,179 a. includes silver sales of 2.1 million ounces ( $30.70 per ounce average realized price). b. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 126 table of contents indonesia mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper gold silver total revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3,261 $ 3,261 $ 2,011 $ 97 a $ 5,369 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1,869 b 1,135 700 34 1,869 gold and silver credits (2,090 ) treatment charges 156 95 58 3 156 royalty on metals 137 83 52 2 137 net cash costs 72 1,313 810 39 2,162 depreciation and amortization 215 131 80 4 215 noncash and other costs, net 33 20 12 1 33 total costs 320 1,464 902 44 2,410 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (12 ) (12 ) (18 ) (30 ) pt smelting intercompany profit 111 67 41 3 111 gross profit $ 3,040 $ 1,852 $ 1,132 $ 56 $ 3,040 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 846 846 gold sales (thousands of recoverable ounces) 1,270 gross profit per pound of copper/per ounce of gold: revenues, excluding adjustments $ 3.85 $ 3.85 $ 1,583 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 2.21 b 1.34 551 gold and silver credits (2.47 ) treatment charges 0.19 0.11 46 royalty on metals 0.16 0.10 41 unit net cash costs 0.09 1.55 638 depreciation and amortization 0.25 0.16 63 noncash and other costs, net 0.04 0.02 10 total unit costs 0.38 1.73 711 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (0.01 ) (0.01 ) (13 ) pt smelting intercompany profit 0.13 0.08 32 gross profit per pound/ounce $ 3.59 $ 2.19 $ 891 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 5,369 $ 1,869 $ 215 treatment charges (156 ) royalty on metals (137 ) net noncash and other costs 33 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (30 ) pt smelting intercompany profit (111 ) indonesia mining 5,046 1,791 215 other mining &amp; eliminations c 15,826 8,110 800 total mining 20,872 9,901 1,015 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations corporate, other &amp; eliminations 8 (3 ) 7 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. includes silver sales of 2.7 million ounces ( $36.18 per ounce average realized price). b. includes $66 million ($0.08 per pound) for bonuses and other strike-related costs. c. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 127 table of contents africa mining product revenues and production costs year ended december 31, 2013 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper cobalt total revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 1,457 $ 1,457 $ 205 $ 1,662 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 649 614 111 725 cobalt credits b (131 ) royalty on metals 29 26 3 29 net cash costs 547 640 114 754 depreciation, depletion and amortization 246 220 26 246 noncash and other costs, net 29 26 3 29 total costs 822 886 143 1,029 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 2 2 2 4 gross profit $ 637 $ 573 $ 64 $ 637 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 454 454 cobalt sales (millions of contained pounds) 25 gross profit per pound of copper/cobalt: revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 3.21 $ 3.21 $ 8.02 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.43 1.35 4.35 cobalt credits b (0.29 ) royalty on metals 0.07 0.06 0.14 unit net cash costs 1.21 1.41 4.49 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.54 0.48 1.00 noncash and other costs, net 0.06 0.06 0.11 total unit costs 1.81 1.95 5.60 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.09 gross profit per pound $ 1.40 $ 1.26 $ 2.51 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 1,662 $ 725 $ 246 royalty on metals (29 ) net noncash and other costs 29 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 4 africa mining 1,637 754 246 other mining &amp; eliminations c 16,664 10,397 1,176 total mining 18,301 11,151 1,422 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations 2,616 682 1,364 corporate, other &amp; eliminations 4 7 11 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,921 $ 11,840 $ 2,797 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. c. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 128 table of contents africa mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper cobalt total revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 1,179 $ 1,179 $ 194 $ 1,373 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 501 465 121 586 cobalt credits b (112 ) royalty on metals 25 22 3 25 net cash costs 414 487 124 611 depreciation, depletion and amortization 176 160 16 176 noncash and other costs, net 29 26 3 29 total costs 619 673 143 816 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 8 8 3 11 gross profit $ 568 $ 514 $ 54 $ 568 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 336 336 cobalt sales (millions of contained pounds) 25 gross profit per pound of copper/cobalt: revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 3.51 $ 3.51 $ 7.83 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.49 1.39 4.86 cobalt credits b (0.33 ) royalty on metals 0.07 0.06 0.12 unit net cash costs 1.23 1.45 4.98 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.52 0.47 0.67 noncash and other costs, net 0.09 0.08 0.11 total unit costs 1.84 2.00 5.76 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.02 0.02 0.09 gross profit per pound $ 1.69 $ 1.53 $ 2.16 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 1,373 $ 586 $ 176 royalty on metals (25 ) net noncash and other costs 29 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 11 africa mining 1,359 615 176 other mining &amp; eliminations c 16,644 9,764 996 total mining 18,003 10,379 1,172 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations corporate, other &amp; eliminations 7 3 7 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,010 $ 10,382 $ 1,179 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. c. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 129 table of contents africa mining product revenues and production costs (continued) year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) by-product co-product method method copper cobalt total revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 1,059 $ 1,059 $ 253 $ 1,312 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 444 393 141 534 cobalt credits b (165 ) royalty on metals 24 20 4 24 net cash costs 303 413 145 558 depreciation, depletion and amortization 140 120 20 140 noncash and other costs, net 57 49 8 57 total costs 500 582 173 755 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales (1 ) (1 ) 2 1 gross profit $ 558 $ 476 $ 82 $ 558 copper sales (millions of recoverable pounds) 283 283 cobalt sales (millions of contained pounds) 25 gross profit per pound of copper/cobalt: revenues, excluding adjustments a $ 3.74 $ 3.74 $ 9.99 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 1.57 1.39 5.58 cobalt credits b (0.58 ) royalty on metals 0.08 0.07 0.16 unit net cash costs 1.07 1.46 5.74 depreciation, depletion and amortization 0.50 0.42 0.78 noncash and other costs, net 0.20 0.18 0.32 total unit costs 1.77 2.06 6.84 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 0.06 gross profit per pound $ 1.97 $ 1.68 $ 3.21 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and (in millions) revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 1,312 $ 534 $ 140 royalty on metals (24 ) net noncash and other costs 57 revenue adjustments, primarily for pricing on prior period open sales 1 africa mining 1,289 591 140 other mining &amp; eliminations c 19,583 9,310 875 total mining 20,872 9,901 1,015 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations corporate, other &amp; eliminations 8 (3 ) 7 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. includes point-of-sale transportation costs as negotiated in customer contracts. b. net of cobalt downstream processing and freight costs. c. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 130 table of contents molybdenum mines product revenues and production costs years ended december 31, (in millions) 2013 a 2012 a 2011 a revenues, excluding adjustments b $ 566 $ 484 $ 628 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 303 210 209 treatment charges and other 44 30 33 net cash costs 347 240 242 depreciation, depletion and amortization 82 33 37 noncash and other costs, net 14 8 2 total costs 443 281 281 gross profit $ 123 $ 203 $ 347 molybdenum sales (millions of recoverable pounds) b 49 34 38 gross profit per pound of molybdenum: revenues, excluding adjustments b $ 11.65 $ 14.27 $ 16.42 site production and delivery, before net noncash and other costs shown below 6.24 6.19 5.46 treatment charges and other 0.91 0.88 0.88 unit net cash costs 7.15 7.07 6.34 depreciation, depletion and amortization 1.68 0.97 0.96 noncash and other costs, net 0.29 0.24 0.04 total unit costs 9.12 8.28 7.34 gross profit per pound $ 2.53 $ 5.99 $ 9.08 reconciliation to amounts reported depreciation, production depletion and year ended december 31, 2013 revenues and delivery amortization totals presented above $ 566 $ 303 $ 82 treatment charges and other (44 ) net noncash and other costs 14 molybdenum mines 522 317 82 other mining &amp; eliminations c 17,779 10,834 1,340 total mining 18,301 11,151 1,422 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations 2,616 682 1,364 corporate, other &amp; eliminations 4 7 11 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,921 $ 11,840 $ 2,797 year ended december 31, 2012 totals presented above $ 484 $ 210 $ 33 treatment charges and other (30 ) net noncash and other costs 8 henderson mine 454 218 33 climax mine 75 102 26 molybdenum mines 529 320 59 other mining &amp; eliminations c 17,474 10,059 1,113 total mining 18,003 10,379 1,172 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations corporate, other &amp; eliminations 7 3 7 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 18,010 $ 10,382 $ 1,179 year ended december 31, 2011 totals presented above $ 628 $ 209 $ 37 treatment charges and other (33 ) net noncash and other costs 2 henderson mine 595 211 37 climax mine 48 8 molybdenum mines 595 259 45 other mining &amp; eliminations c 20,277 9,642 970 total mining 20,872 9,901 1,015 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations corporate, other &amp; eliminations 8 (3 ) 7 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,880 $ 9,898 $ 1,022 a. the year 2013 includes the combined results of the henderson and climax mines; the years 2012 and 2011 reflect the results of only the henderson mine as start-up activities were still underway at the climax mine. b. reflects sales of the molybdenum mines' production to fcx's molybdenum sales company at market-based pricing. on a consolidated basis, realizations are based on the actual contract terms for sales to third parties; as a result, fcx's consolidated average realized price per pound of molybdenum will differ from the amounts reported in this table. c. represents the combined total for all other mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16. also includes amounts associated with fcx's molybdenum sales company, which includes sales of molybdenum produced by the molybdenum mines and by certain of the north and south america copper mines. 131 table of contents u.s. oil &amp; gas product revenues and cash production costs seven months from june 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013 (in millions) oil natural gas ngls total oil &amp; gas oil and gas revenues before derivatives $ 2,655 $ 202 $ 92 $ 2,949 realized (losses) gains on derivative contracts (36 ) 14 (22 ) realized revenues $ 2,619 $ 216 $ 92 2,927 less: cash production costs 653 cash operating margin 2,274 less: depreciation, depletion and amortization 1,364 less: accretion and other costs 29 plus: net unrealized and noncash realized losses on derivative contracts (312 ) a plus: other net adjustments 1 gross profit $ 570 oil (mmbbls) 26.6 gas (bcf) 54.2 ngls (mmbbls) 2.4 oil equivalents (mmboe) 38.1 oil (per barrel) natural gas (per mmbtu) ngls (per barrel) per boe oil and gas revenues before derivatives $ 99.67 $ 3.73 $ 38.20 $ 77.45 realized (losses) gains on derivative contracts (1.35 ) 0.26 (0.58 ) realized revenues $ 98.32 $ 3.99 $ 38.20 76.87 less: cash production costs 17.14 cash operating margin 59.73 less: depreciation, depletion and amortization 35.81 less: accretion and other costs 0.79 plus: net unrealized and noncash realized losses on derivative contracts (8.20 ) a plus: other net adjustments 0.04 gross profit $ 14.97 reconciliation to amounts reported (in millions) revenues production and delivery depreciation, depletion and amortization revenues, before derivative contracts $ 2,949 $ $ realized losses on derivative contracts (22 ) unrealized and noncash realized losses on derivative contracts (312 ) a cash production costs 653 accretion and other costs 29 depreciation, depletion and amortization 1,364 other net adjustments 1 u.s. oil &amp; gas operations 2,616 682 1,364 total mining b 18,301 11,151 1,422 corporate, other &amp; eliminations 4 7 11 as reported in fcx's consolidated financial statements $ 20,921 $ 11,840 $ 2,797 a. includes $85 million ($2.23 per boe) of noncash losses realized on 2013 derivative contracts resulting from amounts recorded as part of acquisition accounting. b. represents the combined total for all mining operations and the related eliminations, as presented in note 16 . 132 table of contents cautionary statement our discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements in which we discuss factors we believe may affect our future performance. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as projections or expectations relating to ore grades and milling rates, production and sales volumes, unit net cash costs, cash production costs per boe, operating cash flows, capital expenditures, exploration efforts and results, development and production activities and costs, liquidity, tax rates, the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum, cobalt, crude oil and natural gas price changes, the impact of derivative positions, the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings, reserve estimates, and future dividend payments, debt reduction and share purchases. the words anticipates, may, can, plans, believes, potential, estimates, expects, projects, targets, intends, likely, will, should, to be, and any similar expressions are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements. the declaration of dividends is at the discretion of our board and will depend on our financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the board. we caution readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include commodity prices, mine sequencing, production rates, industry risks, regulatory changes, political risks, the outcome of ongoing discussions with the indonesian government regarding pt-fi's cow and the impact of the january 2014 regulations on pt-fi's exports and export duties, the potential effects of violence in indonesia, the resolution of administrative disputes in the democratic republic of congo, weather- and climate-related risks, labor relations, environmental risks, litigation results, currency translation risks, and other factors described in more detail under the heading risk factors in our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2013 , filed with the sec as updated by our subsequent filings with the sec. investors are cautioned that many of the assumptions on which our forward-looking statements are based are likely to change after our forward-looking statements are made, including for example commodity prices, which we cannot control, and production volumes and costs, some aspects of which we may or may not be able to control. further, we may make changes to our business plans that could or will affect our results. we caution investors that we do not intend to update forward-looking statements more frequently than quarterly notwithstanding any changes in our assumptions, changes in business plans, actual experience or other changes, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. 133 table of contentsrisk factors 45 "risk factors" for further information on labor matters. 6 table of contents environmental and reclamation matters the cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. for information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to item 1a. risk factors and notes 1 and 12 . competition the top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately half of total worldwide mined copper production. we currently rank second among those producers, with approximately eight percent of total worldwide estimated mined copper production. our competitive position is based on the size, quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. we have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. the metals markets are cyclical and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to manage our costs. within the oil and gas industry, our competitors include national and international oil companies, major integrated oil and gas companies, numerous independent oil and gas companies and others. there is substantial competition in the oil and gas industry. our ability to identify and successfully develop additional prospects and to discover oil and gas reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties, consummate transactions and manage our operations in a cost-efficient and effective manner in a highly competitive environment. mining operations following are maps and descriptions of our mining operations in north america (including both copper and molybdenum operations), south america, indonesia and africa. north america in the u.s., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, sx/ew facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is generally owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. certain portions of our bagdad, sierrita, miami, chino, tyrone, henderson and climax operations are located on government-owned land and are operated under a mine plan of operations or other use permit. various federal and state permits or leases on government land are held for purposes incidental to mine operations. morenci we own an 85 percent undivided interest in morenci, with the remaining 15 percent owned by affiliates of sumitomo corporation. each partner takes in kind its share of morenci's production. morenci is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. morenci is located in greenlee county, arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of safford on u.s. highway 191. the site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur. 7 table of contents the morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide. the morenci operation consists of two concentrators capable of milling 115,000 metric tons-per-day, which produce copper and molybdenum concentrates; a 68,000 metric ton-per-day crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a low-grade run-of-mine (rom) leaching system; four sx plants; and three ew tank houses that produce copper cathode. total ew tank house capacity is approximately 900 million pounds of copper per year. morenci's concentrate leach, direct-electrowinning facility, which was placed on care-and-maintenance status in early 2009, is expected to resume operation during 2015. morenci's available mining fleet consists of one hundred and eleven 236-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 12 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 57 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 815,000 metric tons of material per day. morenci has expanded its mining and milling capacity to process additional sulfide ores identified through exploratory drilling. the mill expansion project commenced operations in may 2014 and is expected to achieve full rates in first-quarter 2015. the project targets average incremental annual production (net of our joint venture partner's share) of approximately 225 million pounds of copper through an increase in milling rates from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to 115,000 metric tons of ore per day. morenci's copper production (net of our joint venture partner's share) is expected to average over 900 million pounds per year over the next five years, compared with 691 million pounds for the year 2014. construction of the expanded morenci milling facility is substantially complete. remaining items include completion of the molybdenum circuit, which would add capacity of approximately 9 million pounds of molybdenum per year, and the construction of an expanded tailings storage facility. both are expected to be completed in 2015. morenci's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 812 million pounds of copper and less than 1 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 , 664 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 , and 632 million pounds of copper and 3 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 . morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 840 meters above sea level. the morenci operation encompasses approximately 65,100 acres, comprising 51,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 10,900 acres of unpatented mining claims and 3,050 acres of land held by state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-way. the morenci operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility in deming, new mexico. although we believe the morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the morenci operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. bagdad our wholly owned bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in yavapai county in west-central arizona. it is approximately 60 miles west of prescott and 100 miles northwest of phoenix. the 8 table of contents property can be reached by arizona highway 96, which ends at the town of bagdad. the closest railroad is at hillside, arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on arizona highway 96. the open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings. the bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite. the bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, an sx/ew plant that can produce up to 32 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure leach plant to process molybdenum concentrates. the available mining fleet consists of thirty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 44 to 62 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day. bagdad's production totaled 237 million pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 , 216 million pounds of copper and 8 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 , and 197 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 . bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 310 meters above sea level. the bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,750 acres, comprising 21,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 600 acres of unpatented mining claims. bagdad receives electrical power from arizona public service company. although we believe the bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may set legal precedents, which could adversely affect our water rights at bagdad and at our other properties in arizona. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. safford our wholly owned safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in graham county, arizona, approximately eight miles north of the town of safford and 170 miles east of phoenix. the site is accessible by paved county road off u.s. highway 70. the safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite. the property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathodes. the operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. the crushed ore is delivered to leach pads by a series of overland and portable conveyors. leach solutions feed a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. a sulphur burner plant is also in operation at safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in sx/ew operations. the available mining fleet consists of sixteen 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 225,000 metric tons of material per day. 9 table of contents safford's copper production totaled 139 million pounds in 2014 , 146 million pounds in 2013 and 175 million pounds in 2012 . safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. the safford operation encompasses approximately 25,000 acres, comprising 21,000 acres of patented lands, 3,950 acres of unpatented lands and 50 acres of land held by federal permit. the safford operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility. although we believe the safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the safford operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. sierrita our wholly owned sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in pima county, arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of tucson and seven miles west of the town of green valley and interstate highway 19. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. the sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates. sierrita also produces copper from a rom oxide-leaching system. cathode copper is plated at the twin buttes ew facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. the sierrita operation also has a copper sulfate crystal plant, which has the capacity to produce 40 million pounds of copper sulfate per year, and molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. the molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. the available mining fleet consists of twenty-five 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day. sierrita's production totaled 195 million pounds of copper and 24 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 , 171 million pounds of copper and 20 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 , and 157 million pounds of copper and 21 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 . sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. the sierrita operation, including the adjacent twin buttes site (refer to "smelting facilities and other mining properties" for further discussion), encompasses approximately 37,650 acres, comprising 13,300 acres of patented mining claims and 24,350 acres of split-estate lands. 10 table of contents sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the tucson electric power company. although we believe the sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the sierrita operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. miami our wholly owned miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in gila county, arizona, approximately 90 miles east of phoenix and six miles west of the city of globe on u.s. highway 60. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. since about 1915, the miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. current operations include leaching by the sx/ew process. the design capacity of the sx/ew plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. the available mining fleet consists of six 227-metric ton haul trucks loaded by one 34 cubic meter shovel dipper and one 19 cubic meter loader dipper. this fleet is capable of moving an average of 35,000 metric tons of material per day. miami's copper production totaled 57 million pounds in 2014 , 61 million pounds in 2013 and 66 million pounds in 2012 . miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom will have an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. the miami operation encompasses approximately 9,100 acres, comprising 8,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 350 acres of unpatented mining claims. miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the salt river project and natural gas through long-term contracts with el paso natural gas as the transporter. although we believe the miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the miami operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 11 table of contents chino and tyrone chino our wholly owned chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in southwestern new mexico in grant county, approximately 15 miles east of the town of silver city off of state highway 180. the mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. chino has been in operation since 1910. the chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. there is leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and millable primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides. the chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, and a 150 million pound-per-year sx/ew plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by rom leaching. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-six 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 42 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 220,000 metric tons of material per day. chino's production totaled 250 million pounds of copper and less than 1 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 , 171 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 , and 144 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 . chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,500 meters above sea level. the chino operation encompasses approximately 118,600 acres, comprising 113,200 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 5,400 acres of unpatented mining claims. chino receives power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations. tyrone our wholly owned tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. it is located in southwestern new mexico in grant county, approximately 10 miles south of silver city, new mexico, along state highway 90. the site is accessible by paved road and rail. the tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla. copper processing facilities consist of a sx/ew operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathodes per year. the available mining fleet consists of nineteen 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 47 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 135,000 metric tons of material per day. tyrone's copper production totaled 94 million pounds in 2014 , 96 million pounds in 2013 and 83 million pounds in 2012 . 12 table of contents tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. the tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 16,450 acres of unpatented mining claims. tyrone receives electrical power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe the tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. henderson and climax henderson our wholly owned henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of denver, colorado, off u.s. highway 40. nearby communities include the towns of empire, georgetown and idaho springs. the henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from colorado state highway 9. the henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the continental divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. the tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill. the henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 40 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our fort madison, iowa, processing facility. the available underground mining equipment fleet consists of fourteen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (lhd) units and seven 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles. henderson's molybdenum production totaled 30 million pounds in both 2014 and 2013 and 34 million pounds in 2012 . the henderson mine is located in a mountainous region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. the main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,900 acres, comprising 11,850 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and a 50-acre easement with the u.s. forest service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor. henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. climax our wholly owned climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of leadville, colorado, off colorado state highway 91 at the top of fremont pass. the mine is accessible by paved roads . 13 table of contents the climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the climax open-pit mine includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. the available mining fleet consists of nine 177-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two hydraulic shovels with bucket sizes of 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 90,000 metric tons of material per day. molybdenum production from climax totaled 21 million pounds in 2014, 19 million pounds in 2013 and 7 million pounds in 2012 (reflecting production since the start of commercial operations in may 2012). the climax mine is located in a mountainous region. the highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the operations encompass approximately 14,350 acres, consisting primarily of patented mining claims and other fee lands. climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. south america at our operations in south america, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. the claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements. cerro verde we have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in cerro verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by smm cerro verde netherlands b.v. (21.0 percent), compa ia de minas buenaventura s.a.a. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the lima stock exchange (5.86 percent). cerro verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of arequipa, peru. the site is accessible by paved highway. a majority of cerro verde's copper cathode production is sold locally and the remaining copper cathodes and concentrate production are transported approximately 70 miles by truck and rail to the port of matarani for shipment to international markets. the cerro verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper pitch. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. cerro verde's current operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 120,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator and sx/ew leaching facilities. leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a rom leach system. this sx/ew leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. 14 table of contents the available fleet consists of two 305-metric ton haul trucks and fifty-five 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 57 cubic meters and one hydraulic shovel with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters. this fleet is capable of moving an average of approximately 450,000 metric tons of material per day. construction activities associated with a large-scale expansion at cerro verde are advancing toward completion in late 2015. detailed engineering and major procurement activities are complete and construction progress is more than 50 percent complete. the project will expand the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. cerro verde's production totaled 500 million pounds of copper and 11 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 , 558 million pounds of copper and 13 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 , and 595 million pounds of copper and 8 million pounds of molybdenum in 2012 . cerro verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 2,750 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,570 meters above sea level. the peruvian general mining law and cerro verde's mining stability agreement grants the surface rights of mining concessions located on government land. cerro verde has a mining concession covering approximately 157,000 acres, including 14,500 acres rented from the regional government of arequipa, plus 71 acres of owned property, and 80 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area. cerro verde receives electrical power under long-term contracts with kallpa generaci n sa and empresa de generaci n el ctrica de arequipa. cerro verde will also begin to receive electrical power under long-term contracts with electroperu beginning in 2015 to supply energy to the expanded facilities. water for our cerro verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. cerro verde's participation in the pillones reservoir project has allowed better regulation of the rio chili system, securing water rights that we believe will be sufficient to support cerro verde's current operations. an agreement has been reached with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, the local water utility company, servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar), and other local institutions to allow cerro verde to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa, which would be used to supplement existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. el abra we own a 51 percent interest in el abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise corporaci n nacional del cobre de chile (codelco). el abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of calama in chile's el loa province, region ii. the site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. 15 table of contents the el abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. the predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. there is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization as chalcocite. the oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. there are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite. the el abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized rom leaching operation. the available fleet consists of forty-one 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 26 to 41 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 214,000 metric tons of material per day. el abra's copper production totaled 367 million pounds in 2014 , 343 million pounds in 2013 and 338 million pounds in 2012 . we continue to evaluate a potential large-scale milling operation at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. exploration results in recent years at el abra indicate a significant sulfide resource, which could potentially support a major mill project. future investments will be dependent on technical studies, economic factors and global copper market conditions. el abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,430 meters above sea level. el abra controls a total of approximately 151,300 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. in addition, el abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the salar de ascot n aquifer. el abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with e-cl. water for our el abra processing operations comes from pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. we believe el abra has sufficient water rights and regulatory approvals to support current operations. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. indonesia ownership . pt-fi is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the republic of indonesia. we directly own 81.28 percent of the outstanding common stock of pt-fi and indirectly own 9.36 percent through our wholly owned subsidiary, pt indocopper investama; the indonesian government owns the remaining 9.36 percent. 16 table of contents pt-fi has established an unincorporated joint venture with rio tinto, under which rio tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021 in block a of pt-fi's contract of work (cow), and after 2021, a 40 percent interest in all production from block a. refer to note 3 for further discussion of the joint venture agreement. contracts of work . pt-fi conducts its current exploration and mining operations in indonesia through a cow with the indonesian government. the cow governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 foreign capital investment law, which expresses indonesia's foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. specifically, the cow provides that the indonesian government will not nationalize or expropriate pt-fi's mining operations. any disputes regarding the provisions of the cow are subject to international arbitration; however, we have not had an arbitration during the more than 40 years we have operated in indonesia. pt-fi's original cow was entered into in 1967 and was replaced by the current cow in 1991. the initial term of the current cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. the cow allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre block a area, which is where all of pt-fi's proven and probable mineral reserves and all its current mining operations are located. under the cow, pt-fi also conducts exploration activities in the block b area currently covering 502,000 acres. ongoing negotiations for an amended cow, discussed below and in note 13 , may result in relinquishments of the block b acreage. pt-fi pays royalties on copper, gold and silver in the concentrate it sells. prior to the modifications discussed below as of a result of the july 25, 2014, memorandum of understanding (mou), pt-fi had agreed to pay additional royalties to the indonesian government that are not required under its cow. the additional royalties provided further support to the local governments and to the people of the indonesian province of papua. pt-fi's share of the royalties totaled $115 million in 2014 (including the increased royalties per the mou discussed below), $109 million in 2013 and $93 million in 2012 . additionally, during 2014 pt-fi paid export duties totaling $77 million in accordance with regulations issued by the indonesian government on july 25, 2014. refer to note 13 and regulatory matters below for further discussion of increased royalties and export taxes. through joint venture agreements under separate cows, we were allowed to conduct exploration activities in papua, indonesia, through two other entities: pt nabire bakti mining (ptnbm) and pt irja eastern minerals (eastern minerals), of which we own 100 percent. the cows for ptnbm and eastern minerals expired in 2013, and we are working with the indonesia government to complete the process to terminate the cows and return the exploration areas to the indonesia government. we have completed the required notifications and reviews and are awaiting the termination acceptance documents. regulatory matters . as further discussed in item 1a. "risk factors," pt-fi has been engaged in discussions with officials of the indonesian government since 2012 regarding various provisions of its cow. the indonesian government has sought to modify existing mining contracts, including pt-fi's cow, to address provisions of indonesia's 2009 mining law and subsequent regulations, including with respect to the size of contract concessions, government revenues, domestic processing of minerals, divestment, provision of local services, conversion from a contract of work to a licensing framework for extension periods, and a requirement that extensions may be applied for only within two years prior to a contract of work's expiration. in january 2014, the indonesian government published regulations providing that holders of contracts of work with existing processing facilities in indonesia may continue to export product through january 12, 2017, but established new requirements for the continued export of copper concentrates, including the imposition of a progressive export duty on copper concentrates. despite pt-fi's rights under its cow to export concentrates without the payment of duties, pt-fi was unable to obtain administrative approval for exports and operated at approximately half of its capacity from mid-january 2014 through july 2014. on july 25, 2014, pt-fi entered into a mou with the indonesian government under which pt-fi and the government agreed to negotiate an amended cow to address provisions related to the size of pt-fi's concession area, royalties and taxes, domestic processing and refining, divestment, local content, and continuation of operations post-2021. execution of the mou enabled the resumption of concentrate exports, which began in august 17 table of contents 2014. the mou has been extended to july 25, 2015. pt-fi is engaged in active discussions with the indonesian government regarding an amended cow. provisions being addressed in the negotiation of an amended cow include the development of new copper smelting and refining capacity in indonesia, divestment to the indonesian government and/or indonesian nationals of up to a 30 percent interest (an additional 20.64 percent interest) in pt-fi at fair value, and timely granting rights for the continuation of operations from 2022 through 2041. negotiations are taking into consideration pt-fi's need for assurance of legal and fiscal terms post-2021 for pt-fi to continue with its large-scale investment program for the development of its underground reserves. effective with the signing of the mou, pt-fi provided a $115 million assurance bond to support its commitment for smelter development, agreed to increase royalties to 4.0 percent for copper and 3.75 percent for gold from the previous rates of 3.5 percent for copper and 1.0 percent for gold, and to pay export duties as set forth in a new regulation. the indonesian government revised its january 2014 regulations regarding export duties, which are now set at 7.5 percent, declining to 5.0 percent when smelter development progress exceeds 7.5 percent and are eliminated when development progress exceeds 30 percent. pt-fi is advancing plans for the construction of new smelter capacity in parallel with completing negotiations of its long-term operating rights and will also discuss the possibility of expanding industrial activities in papua in connection with its long-term development plans. pt-fi has identified a site adjacent to the existing pt smelting site in gresik, indonesia, for the construction of additional smelter capacity. refer to mining development projects and exploration for further discussion. under the mou, no terms of the cow, other than those relating to the export duties, the smelter bond and royalties described above, will be changed until the completion of an amended cow. pt-fi is required to apply for renewal of export permits at six-month intervals. in january 2015, pt-fi obtained a renewal of its export license through july 25, 2015. grasberg minerals district . pt-fi operates in the remote highlands of the sudirman mountain range in the province of papua, indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of new guinea. we and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in block a since 1967. the grasberg minerals district has three operating mines: the grasberg open pit, the deep ore zone (doz) underground mine and the big gossan underground mine. we also have several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district related to the development of the large-scale, long-lived, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the grasberg open pit. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up over several years to process approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the transition from the grasberg open pit, currently anticipated to occur in late 2017. refer to md&amp;a for further discussion. pt-fi's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 651 million pounds of copper and 1.13 million ounces of gold in 2014 , 928 million pounds of copper and 1.14 million ounces of gold in 2013 and 695 million pounds of copper and 862 thousand ounces of gold in 2012 . our principal source of power for all our indonesian operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. a combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. our indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. grasberg open pit we began open-pit mining of the grasberg ore body in 1990, with mining operations expected to continue through the end of 2017. production in the open pit is currently at the 3,220- to 3,760-meter elevation level and totaled 24 million metric tons of ore in 2014 , which provided 55 percent of pt-fi's 2014 mill feed. the current open-pit equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. the larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 150 haul trucks with payloads ranging from 218 to 330 metric tons and 18 table of contents 16 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 42 cubic meters, which mined an average of 298,000 metric tons of material per day during 2014 , 381,000 metric tons per day in 2013 and 399,000 metric tons per day in 2012 . grasberg crushing and conveying systems are integral to the mine and provide the capacity to transport up to 150,000 metric tons per day of grasberg ore to the mill and 75,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. the remaining overburden is moved by haul trucks. ore milled from the grasberg open-pit averaged 69,100 metric tons of ore per day for the year 2014 and is expected to approximate 125,000 metric tons of ore per day for the year 2015. doz underground mine the doz ore body lies vertically below the now depleted intermediate ore zone. we began production from the doz ore body in 1989 using open stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the grasberg open pit. production resumed in september 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level. ore milled from the doz mine averaged 50,500 metric tons of ore per day for the year 2014 and is expected to ramp up to approximately 70,000 metric tons of ore per day in the second half of 2015. production at the doz mine is expected to continue through 2020. the doz mine fleet consists of over 250 pieces of mobile equipment, which is capable of mining an average of 80,000 metric tons of material per day. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 52 lhd units and 20 haul trucks. each production lhd unit typically carries approximately 11 metric tons of ore. using ore passes and chutes, the lhd units transfer ore into 55-metric ton capacity haul trucks. the trucks dump into two gyratory crushers and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. the success of the development of the doz mine, one of the world's largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of pt-fi's large-scale undeveloped underground ore bodies. big gossan underground mine the big gossan mine lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. it is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. the mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. the crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. the belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. although development activities continue, production from the big gossan underground mine was suspended for the majority of 2014. ore milled from the big gossan underground mine averaged 900 metric tons of ore per day for the year 2014 and is expected to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2018. the big gossan underground mine fleet consists of over 100 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes five lhd units and three haul trucks used in development and production activities. description of ore bodies . our indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the grasberg monzodiorite and the ertsberg diorite. the host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the sudirman range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. the igneous-hosted ore bodies (the grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the doz block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. the sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the doz and all of the big gossan) occur as magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. the copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district's ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. these gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. 19 table of contents the following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported ore bodies. the following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported indonesia ore bodies and their locations. 20 table of contents africa tfm is organized under the laws of the drc. we own an effective 56 percent interest in tfm, with the remaining ownership interests held by lundin mining corporation (lundin) (an effective 24 percent interest) and la g n rale des carri res et des mines (g camines), which is wholly owned by the drc government (a 20 percent non-dilutable interest). tfm is entitled to mine in the drc under an amended and restated mining convention (armc) with the drc government. the original mining convention was entered into in 1996 and was replaced with the armc in 2005, which was further amended in 2010 (approved in 2011). the current armc will remain in effect for as long as the tenke concessions are exploitable. tfm pays a royalty of two percent of net revenues under the armc, which totaled $29 million in both 2014 and 2013 and $25 million in 2012 . the tenke minerals district is located in the katanga province of the drc approximately 110 miles northwest of lubumbashi and is accessible by paved roads and by rail. the deposits are sediment-hosted copper and cobalt deposits with oxide, mixed oxide-sulfide and sulfide mineralization. the dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite. important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite. the tenke minerals district contains an open-pit copper and cobalt mining complex, which commenced initial copper production in march 2009. tfm completed its second phase expansion project in early 2013, which included increasing mine, mill and processing capacity. construction of a second sulfuric acid plant is underway, with completion expected in 2016. we continue to engage in exploration activities and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective minerals district at tenke. these analyses are being incorporated in future plans for potential expansions of production capacity. future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including power availability, economic and market conditions, and the business and investment climate in the drc. the current equipment fleet includes one 10-cubic meter mass excavator, three 17-cubic meter mass excavators, four 12-cubic meter front-end loaders, thirteen 7-cubic meter front-end loaders, thirty-two 91-metric ton haul trucks and fifteen 45-metric ton haul trucks. copper and cobalt are recovered through an agitation-leach plant. production from the tenke minerals district totaled 447 million pounds of copper and 29 million pounds of cobalt in 2014 , 462 million pounds of copper and 28 million pounds of cobalt in 2013 and 348 million pounds of copper and 26 million pounds of cobalt in 2012 . the tenke minerals district is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated by its higher altitudes. weather in this region is characterized by a dry season and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,520 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,110 meters above sea level. the tenke deposits are covered by six exploitation permits totaling approximately 394,450 acres. tfm has long-term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with la soci t nationale d'electricit , the state-owned electric utility company serving the region. the results of a recent water exploration program, as well 21 table of contents as the regional geological and hydro-geological conditions, indicate that adequate water is available during the expected life of the operation. smelting facilities and other mining properties atlantic copper . our wholly owned atlantic copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the huelva, spain, port authorities, which are scheduled to expire in 2027. the design capacity of the smelter is approximately 300,000 metric tons of copper per year and the refinery currently has a capacity of 285,000 metric tons of copper per year. during 2014 , atlantic copper treated 1.1 million metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 294,100 metric tons of copper anodes from its smelter and 283,800 metric tons of copper cathodes from its refinery. following is a summary of atlantic copper's concentrate purchases from our copper mining operations and third parties for the last three years: 2014 2013 2012 north america copper mines 21 % 13 % 16 % south america mining 21 % 32 % 31 % indonesia mining 8 % 16 % 10 % third parties 50 % 39 % 43 % 100 % 100 % 100 % during 2013, atlantic copper successfully completed a scheduled 68-day major maintenance turnaround. atlantic copper's major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. the next short-term maintenance turnaround is scheduled for the second half of 2015. pt smelting . pt-fi's cow required us to construct or cause to be constructed a smelter in indonesia if we and the indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. in 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of pt smelting, an indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia. pt smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. pt-fi owns 25 percent of pt smelting, with the remainder owned by mitsubishi materials corporation (60.5 percent), mitsubishi corporation unimetals ltd. (9.5 percent) and jx nippon mining &amp; metals corporation (5 percent). pt-fi's contract with pt smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (subject to a minimum or maximum rate) necessary for pt smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. pt-fi also sells copper concentrate to pt smelting (at market rates) for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. during 2014 , pt smelting treated 911,500 metric tons of concentrate and produced 236,900 metric tons of copper anodes from its smelter and 231,800 metric tons of copper cathodes from its refinery. pt smelting's maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. pt smelting completed a 23-day maintenance turnaround during 2014, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2016. miami smelter . we own and operate a smelter at our miami, arizona, mining operation. the smelter has been operating for approximately 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with air quality requirements. as a result of new air quality standards for sulfur dioxide emissions, the miami smelter will install pollution control equipment as part of an expansion that will allow the smelter to operate and comply with the new standards by 2018. the miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our arizona copper mines. concentrate processed through the smelter totaled 603,700 metric tons in 2014 . in addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrates, the miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our north america leaching operations. major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) typically occur approximately every 14 months for the miami smelter, with shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim.the scheduled 22 table of contents shutdown in fourth-quarter 2014 was extended for several weeks as a result of a furnace fire. repairs have been completed, and the smelter is operating at normal rates. rod &amp; refining operations . our rod &amp; refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in north america, including a refinery in el paso, texas; rod mills in el paso, texas, norwich, connecticut, and miami, arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in bayway, new jersey. we refine our copper anode production from our miami smelter at our el paso refinery. the el paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at miami. our el paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. molybdenum conversion facilities . we process molybdenum concentrates at our conversion plants in the u.s. and europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates and molybdenum disulfide. we operate molybdenum roasters in sierrita, arizona; fort madison, iowa; and rotterdam, the netherlands, and we operate a molybdenum pressure leach plant in bagdad, arizona. we also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in stowmarket, united kingdom. freeport cobalt . on march 29, 2013, we, through a newly formed consolidated joint venture, completed the acquisition of a cobalt chemical refinery in kokkola, finland, and the related sales and marketing business. the acquisition provides direct end-market access for the cobalt hydroxide production at the tenke minerals district. the joint venture operates under the name freeport cobalt, and we are the operator with an effective 56 percent ownership interest. the remaining effective ownership interest is held by our partners in tfm, including 24 percent by lundin and 20 percent by g camines. the kokkola refinery has an annual refining capacity of approximately 12,000 metric tons of cobalt, sufficient to refine the majority of the cobalt we produce in the tenke minerals district. other north america copper mines . in addition to our operating mines, we have five non-operating copper mines in north america ajo, bisbee, twin buttes and tohono in arizona, and cobre in new mexico that have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require new or updated environmental studies, new permits, and additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status. mining development projects and exploration we have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. our near-term major development projects, which require substantial additional capital investment, include the cerro verde expansion and underground development activities in grasberg. refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of these and our other development projects. considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. we continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our mineral reserves. capital expenditures for mining operations totaled $4.0 billion (including $2.9 billion for major projects) in 2014, $3.8 billion (including $2.3 billion for major projects) in 2013 and $3.5 billion (including $2.2 billion for major projects) in 2012. capital expenditures for major projects are primarily associated with the expansion projects at morenci and cerro verde and underground development activities at grasberg. capital expenditures for major projects for the year 2012 also included amounts associated with the expansion at tenke fungurume. capital expenditures for major projects at mining operations in the year 2015 are expected to approximate $2.5 billion and are primarily associated with the cerro verde expansion and underground development activities at grasberg. in connection with the mou between pt-fi and the indonesia government, we have agreed to pursue construction of a new smelter in indonesia subject to reaching agreement on our long-term operating rights. the preliminary scope of the smelting facilities and associated refinery involves smelting and refining capacity of approximately two million metric tons per year of copper concentrate. site selection and project definition studies are being advanced. planning for engineering activities is underway as we explore partnership options. we will be reviewing project scope during 2015. 23 table of contents we also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the grasberg minerals district for the kucing liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. we expect to mine the kucing liar ore body using the block-cave method; aggregate capital cost estimates for development of the kucing liar ore body are projected to approximate $2.4 billion (which are expected to be made between 2019 and 2032). additionally, our current mine development plans include approximately $5 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once the grasberg open-pit operations cease (we expect substantially all of these expenditures to be m ade between 2016 and 2034). our exploration activities are generally near our existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves and resources to support development of additional future production capacity in the large minerals districts where we currently operate. exploration results continue to indicate opportunities for significant future reserve additions in north and south america and in the tenke minerals district. the drilling data in north america also indicates the potential for significantly expanded sulfide production. drilling results and exploration modeling in north america have identified large scale potential sulfide resources in the morenci and safford districts, providing a long-term pipeline for future growth in reserves and production capacity in an established minerals district. exploration spending associated with mining operations totaled $96 million in 2014, $182 million in 2013 and $251 million in 2012, and is expected to approximate $100 million for the year 2015. sources and availability of energy, natural resources and raw materials our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented approximately 20 percent of our 2014 consolidated copper production costs and included purchases of approximately 250 million gallons of diesel fuel; 7,600 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america, south america and africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 600 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 million british thermal units (mmbtu) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. based on current cost estimates, we estimate energy will approximate 16 percent of our consolidated copper production costs for 2015. our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. although we believe our mining operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. for a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. sulphuric acid is used in the sx/ew process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulphur burners at the safford and tenke mines. sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties. community and human rights we have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. we continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs basic education programs public health programs, including malaria control and hiv agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs cultural promotion and preservation programs clean water and sanitation projects community infrastructure development charitable donations in december 2000, we endorsed the joint u.s. state department-british foreign office voluntary principles on human rights and security (voluntary principles). we participated in developing these voluntary principles with other major natural resource companies and international human rights organizations and they are incorporated into our human rights policy and site level projects. 24 table of contents we completed a corporate level human rights impact assessment in 2014, the results of which were used to evaluate our human rights program, including a review of our human rights policy. in february 2015, we updated our human rights policy to, among other things, reflect our commitment to integrating the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights into our human rights program. we also participate in a multi-industry human rights working group to gain insight from peer companies and evaluate ways to integrate human rights due diligence into our business practices and to support our human rights program. we believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. as part of our ongoing, annual commitment to sustainable community development, we have made significant investments in social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations. over the last five years, these investments have averaged $185 million per year. nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. south america . cerro verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, cerro verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve arequipa. in addition, an agreement was reached with the peruvian government for development of a water storage and distribution network, which was financed by the cerro verde civil association (the association). the association manages contributions made by cerro verde for projects that focus on education, training, health, cultural preservation and basic infrastructure. cerro verde has also reached agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, sedapar and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa. treating this water will improve the regional water quality, enhance agriculture products grown in the area and reduce waterborne illnesses. in addition to these projects, cerro verde annually makes significant community development investments in the arequipa region. indonesia . in 1996, pt-fi established the freeport partnership fund for community development (the partnership fund), through which pt-fi has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development of the area. pt-fi has committed through 2016 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the partnership fund. our share of contributions to the partnership fund totaled $31 million in 2014 , $41 million in 2013 and $39 million in 2012 . the amungme and kamoro community development organization ( lembaga pengembangan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro or lpmak) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the partnership fund. lpmak is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local amungme and kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of pt-fi on each board. the amungme and kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. in addition to the partnership fund, pt-fi annually makes significant investments in public health, education, community infrastructure and economic development. security matters . consistent with our cow in indonesia and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, pt-fi maintains its own internal security department. both employees and contractors are unarmed and perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights training annually. pt-fi's share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $57 million for 2014 , $51 million for 2013 and $52 million for 2012 . pt-fi, and all businesses and residents of indonesia, rely on the indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesian government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. this designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our 25 table of contents operations. the indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. from the outset of pt-fi's operations, the indonesian government has looked to pt-fi to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in papua. pt-fi's financial support for the indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol pt-fi's roads and secure its operating area. in addition, the provision of such support is consistent with pt-fi's obligations under the cow, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights. pt-fi's share of support costs for the government-provided security was $27 million in 2014 , $25 million in 2013 and $22 million in 2012 . this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion of security risks in indonesia. africa . tfm has committed to assist the communities living within its concession in the katanga province of the drc. initiatives include an integrated malaria control program, construction, renovation and building of local health facilities, construction and renovation of local schools, installation of over 100 clean water wells in rural villages as well as construction of urban water distribution systems, and economic development programs supporting development and training of local entrepreneurs, contractors and farmers. we have also made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a portion of a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems. through the armc, tfm has also committed to contribute 0.3 percent of its net sales revenue to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services including health, education and agriculture. the tfm social community fund is managed by a board of directors comprised of two local community representatives, one representative nominated by the provincial governor and four tfm representatives. a community stakeholder forum comprised of 40 community representatives provides for increased community participation and input regarding project priorities, community needs, and transparency of fund management. the tfm social community fund contributions totaled $4 million in each of the years 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . security matters . tfm maintains an unarmed internal security department composed of both employees and contractors. the national government also has assigned mines police to the tfm concession area. the mines police are a division of the congolese national police and are responsible for maintaining security in mining concessions throughout the drc. tfm provides food, housing, medical services, supervised transportation, non-lethal equipment and monetary allowances as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession area. the total cost to tfm for this support, including in-kind support, totaled $2 million in 2014 and less than $1 million in both 2013 and 2012 . tfm also participates in monthly security coordination meetings with host country security personnel, other mining companies, non-governmental organizations, and representatives from the united nations to discuss security issues and concerns. as an outcome of the coordination meetings, tfm has partnered with monusco (united nations stabilization mission in the drc) to conduct human rights training in the tfm concession for host government security personnel, local representatives and tfm security employees. 26 table of contents mining production data years ended december 31, (fcx's net interest in %) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 copper (millions of recoverable pounds) north america morenci (85%) a 691 564 537 522 437 bagdad (100%) 237 216 197 194 203 safford (100%) 139 146 175 151 143 sierrita (100%) 195 171 157 177 147 miami (100%) 57 61 66 66 18 chino (100%) 250 171 144 69 34 tyrone (100%) 94 96 83 76 82 other (100%) 7 6 4 3 3 total north america 1,670 1,431 1,363 1,258 1,067 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 500 558 595 647 668 el abra (51%) 367 343 338 274 320 candelaria/ojos del salado (80%) b 284 422 324 385 366 total south america 1,151 1,323 1,257 1,306 1,354 indonesia grasberg (90.64%) c 636 915 695 846 1,222 africa tenke fungurume (56%) d 447 462 348 281 265 consolidated 3,904 4,131 3,663 3,691 3,908 less noncontrolling interests 725 801 723 710 766 net 3,179 3,330 2,940 2,981 3,142 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) north america (100%) a 12 7 13 10 7 south america (80%) b 72 101 83 101 93 indonesia (90.64%) c 1,130 1,142 862 1,272 1,786 consolidated 1,214 1,250 958 1,383 1,886 less noncontrolling interests 120 127 98 139 186 net 1,094 1,123 860 1,244 1,700 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) henderson (100%) 30 30 34 38 40 climax (100%) e 21 19 7 north america copper mines (100%) a 33 32 36 35 25 cerro verde (53.56%) 11 13 8 10 7 consolidated 95 94 85 83 72 less noncontrolling interest 5 6 4 5 3 net 90 88 81 78 69 cobalt (millions of contained pounds) consolidated - tenke fungurume (56%) d 29 28 26 25 20 less noncontrolling interests 13 12 11 11 8 net 16 16 15 14 12 a. amounts are net of morenci's 15 percent joint venture partner interest. b. on november 3, 2014, fcx completed the sale of its 80 percent interests in the candelaria and ojos del salado mines. c. amounts are net of joint venture partner interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement (refer to note 3). under the joint venture arrangements, pt-fi's share of copper production totaled 98 percent in 2014 , 99 percent in 2013 , 100 percent in 2012 , 96 percent in 2011 and 92 percent in 2010. d. effective march 26, 2012, fcx's effective ownership interest in tfm was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. e. the climax molybdenum mine began commercial operations in may 2012. 27 table of contents mining sales data years ended december 31, (fcx's net interest in %) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 copper (millions of recoverable pounds) north america morenci (85%) a 680 561 532 521 434 bagdad (100%) 240 212 196 201 206 safford (100%) 142 151 175 147 155 sierrita (100%) 196 170 162 175 152 miami (100%) 60 60 68 59 17 chino (100%) 243 168 132 62 35 tyrone (100%) 96 94 82 79 83 other (100%) 7 6 4 3 3 total north america 1,664 1,422 1,351 1,247 1,085 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 501 560 589 657 654 el abra (51%) 366 341 338 276 315 candelaria/ojos del salado (80%) b 268 424 318 389 366 total south america 1,135 1,325 1,245 1,322 1,335 indonesia grasberg (90.64%) c 664 885 716 846 1,214 africa tenke fungurume (56%) d 425 454 336 283 262 consolidated sales from mines 3,888 4,086 3,648 3,698 3,896 less noncontrolling interests 715 795 717 717 756 net 3,173 3,291 2,931 2,981 3,140 consolidated sales from mines 3,888 4,086 3,648 3,698 3,896 purchased copper 125 223 125 223 182 total copper sales, including purchases 4,013 4,309 3,773 3,921 4,078 average realized price per pound $ 3.09 $ 3.30 $ 3.60 $ 3.86 $ 3.59 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) north america (100%) a 13 6 13 7 5 south america (80%) b 67 102 82 101 93 indonesia (90.64%) c 1,168 1,096 915 1,270 1,765 consolidated sales from mines 1,248 1,204 1,010 1,378 1,863 less noncontrolling interests 123 123 102 139 184 net 1,125 1,081 908 1,239 1,679 average realized price per ounce $ 1,231 $ 1,315 $ 1,665 $ 1,583 $ 1,271 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) consolidated sales from mines 95 93 83 79 67 less noncontrolling interests 5 5 4 4 3 net 90 88 79 75 64 average realized price per pound $ 12.74 $ 11.85 $ 14.26 $ 16.98 $ 16.47 cobalt (millions of contained pounds) consolidated - tenke fungurume (56%) d 30 25 25 25 20 less noncontrolling interests 13 11 11 10 8 net 17 14 14 15 12 average realized price per pound $ 9.66 $ 8.02 $ 7.83 $ 9.99 $ 10.95 a. amounts are net of morenci's joint venture partner's 15 percent interest. b. on november 3, 2014, fcx completed the sale of its 80 percent interests in the candelaria and ojos del salado mines. c. amounts are net of joint venture partner interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement (refer to note 3). under the joint venture arrangements, pt-fi's share of copper sales totaled 98 percent in 2014 , 99 percent in 2013 , 100 percent in 2012 , 96 percent in 2011 and 92 percent in 2010. d. effective march 26, 2012, fcx's effective ownership interest in tfm was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. 28 table of contents mineral reserves recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves from our mining operations summarized below and detailed on the following pages have been calculated as of december 31, 2014 , in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange act of 1934. proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. proven and probable mineral reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. the term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the term proven reserves means mineral reserves for which (i) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (ii) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (iii) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. the term probable reserves means mineral reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. our estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees; a majority of these estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination. estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2014 , were determined using long-term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper (consistent with the long-term average copper price used since december 31, 2010), $1,000 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. for the three-year period ended december 31, 2014 , lme spot copper prices averaged $3.35 per pound, london pm gold prices averaged $1,449 per ounce, and the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $11.50 per pound. the recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. recoverable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2014 copper a (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) silver b (million ounces) cobalt b (billion pounds) north america 35.6 0.3 2.42 86.2 south america 31.8 0.69 86.6 indonesia 29.0 28.2 110.1 africa 7.1 0.85 consolidated basis c 103.5 28.5 3.11 282.9 0.85 net equity interest d 82.8 25.9 2.79 232.4 0.47 a. consolidated recoverable copper reserves include 3.6 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 0.9 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (refer to mill and leach stockpiles for further discussion). b. determined using long-term average prices of $15 per ounce for silver and $10 per pound for cobalt. c. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. d. net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 29 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2014 proven reserves probable reserves average ore grade average ore grade processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt million copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % metric tons % g/t % g/t % north america morenci mill 635 0.44 0.02 130 0.45 0.02 crushed leach 379 0.49 102 0.46 rom leach 1,976 0.18 701 0.17 bagdad mill 1,007 0.34 a 0.02 1.63 152 0.32 a 0.02 1.54 rom leach 129 0.21 46 0.19 safford crushed leach 81 0.46 41 0.47 sierrita mill 2,252 0.24 a 0.03 1.42 212 0.20 a 0.02 1.20 miami rom leach 2 0.59 1 0.57 chino mill 97 0.53 0.04 0.01 0.46 63 0.49 0.03 0.01 0.42 rom leach 112 0.26 29 0.20 tyrone rom leach 57 0.33 2 0.21 henderson mill 74 0.18 16 0.14 climax mill 162 0.17 23 0.10 cobre b mill 12 0.61 1 0.53 rom leach 57 0.32 1 0.31 7,032 1,520 south america cerro verde mill 881 0.39 0.02 1.62 2,904 0.37 0.01 1.52 crushed leach 36 0.52 64 0.45 rom leach 10 0.26 58 0.24 el abra crushed leach 287 0.51 77 0.49 rom leach 61 0.24 19 0.22 1,275 3,122 indonesia grasberg open pit mill 77 1.10 1.37 2.83 102 0.86 0.82 2.10 deep ore zone mill 47 0.56 0.68 2.27 99 0.53 0.69 2.20 big gossan mill 17 2.39 1.02 15.15 37 2.20 0.98 13.22 grasberg block cave b mill 447 1.19 0.96 3.75 565 0.85 0.61 3.28 kucing liar b mill 152 1.31 1.11 7.45 254 1.21 1.04 6.21 deep mill level zone b mill 65 0.92 0.74 4.60 407 0.86 0.71 4.33 805 1,464 africa tenke fungurume agitation leach 47 3.56 0.43 51 3.01 0.34 total fcx - 100% basis 9,159 6,157 a. grade not shown because of rounding. b. undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. the reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below: g/t grams per metric ton moly molybdenum rom run of mine 30 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2014 (continued) proven and probable average ore grade recoveries a processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % % % north america morenci mill 765 0.44 0.02 79.7 50.7 crushed leach 481 0.49 75.7 rom leach 2,677 0.18 42.7 bagdad mill 1,159 0.34 b 0.02 1.62 85.9 59.1 70.8 49.3 rom leach 175 0.21 23.0 safford crushed leach 122 0.47 63.9 sierrita mill 2,464 0.23 b 0.02 1.40 83.9 59.1 75.9 49.3 miami rom leach 3 0.58 53.6 chino mill 160 0.51 0.03 0.01 0.45 79.4 77.9 42.7 78.5 rom leach 141 0.24 42.9 tyrone rom leach 59 0.32 58.7 henderson mill 90 0.17 84.4 climax mill 185 0.16 88.8 cobre c mill 13 0.61 79.9 rom leach 58 0.32 49.6 8,552 south america cerro verde mill 3,785 0.37 0.02 1.54 86.2 54.3 44.7 crushed leach 100 0.47 79.9 rom leach 68 0.24 53.1 el abra crushed leach 364 0.51 57.6 rom leach 80 0.23 43.4 4,397 indonesia grasberg open pit mill 179 0.96 1.06 2.41 84.1 81.1 43.5 deep ore zone mill 146 0.54 0.69 2.22 86.4 77.2 65.8 big gossan mill 54 2.26 0.99 13.82 91.5 65.6 63.7 grasberg block cave c mill 1,012 1.00 0.77 3.49 84.3 65.0 57.1 kucing liar c mill 406 1.25 1.07 6.67 85.0 45.1 38.8 deep mill level zone c mill 472 0.87 0.71 4.36 86.8 79.3 64.9 2,269 africa tenke fungurume agitation leach 98 3.27 0.38 86.4 75.9 total fcx - 100% basis 15,316 a. recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. grade not shown because of rounding. c. undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. 31 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2014 (continued) recoverable reserves copper gold moly silver cobalt fcx's processing billion million billion million billion interest method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. lbs. north america morenci 85% mill 6.0 0.17 crushed leach 3.9 rom leach 4.5 bagdad 100% mill 7.5 0.1 0.38 29.8 rom leach 0.2 safford 100% crushed leach 0.8 sierrita 100% mill 10.6 0.1 1.01 54.6 miami 100% rom leach a chino 100% mill 1.4 0.1 0.01 1.8 rom leach 0.3 tyrone 100% rom leach 0.2 henderson 100% mill 0.28 climax 100% mill 0.58 cobre 100% mill 0.1 rom leach 0.2 35.7 0.3 2.43 86.2 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 2.1 0.01 100% operations 37.8 0.3 2.44 86.2 consolidated c 35.6 0.3 2.42 86.2 net equity interest d 35.6 0.3 2.42 86.2 south america cerro verde 53.56% mill 26.8 0.66 83.9 crushed leach 0.8 rom leach 0.2 el abra 51% crushed leach 2.3 rom leach 0.2 30.3 0.66 83.9 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 1.5 0.03 2.7 100% operations 31.8 0.69 86.6 consolidated c 31.8 0.69 86.6 net equity interest d 16.9 0.37 46.4 indonesia grasberg open pit e mill 3.2 4.9 6.1 deep ore zone e mill 1.5 2.5 6.8 big gossan e mill 2.4 1.1 15.3 grasberg block cave e mill 18.9 16.3 64.7 kucing liar e mill 9.5 6.3 33.8 deep mill level zone e mill 7.9 8.6 43.0 100% operations 43.4 39.7 169.7 consolidated c 29.0 28.2 110.1 net equity interest d 26.3 25.6 99.8 africa tenke fungurume 56% agitation leach 6.1 0.62 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 1.0 0.23 100% operations 7.1 0.85 consolidated c 7.1 0.85 net equity interest d 4.0 0.47 total fcx 100% basis 120.1 40.0 3.13 342.5 0.85 total fcx consolidated basis c 103.5 28.5 3.11 282.9 0.85 total fcx net equity interest d 82.8 25.9 2.79 232.4 0.47 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. refer to "mill and leach stockpiles" for additional information. c. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. d. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. e. our joint venture agreement with rio tinto provides that pt-fi will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of december 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow. 32 table of contents in defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. the objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. we use a "break-even cutoff grade" to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. the break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. we value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. the calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. the table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of december 31, 2014 : copper equivalent cutoff grade (percent) molybdenum cutoff grade (percent) mill crushed or agitation leach rom leach mill north america morenci 0.25 0.19 0.03 bagdad 0.18 0.08 safford 0.13 sierrita 0.18 miami 0.05 chino 0.20 0.08 tyrone 0.07 henderson 0.12 climax 0.05 cobre 0.50 0.10 south america cerro verde 0.17 0.19 0.14 el abra 0.11 0.08 indonesia grasberg open pit 0.25 deep ore zone 0.83 big gossan 1.88 grasberg block cave 0.74 kucing liar 0.86 deep mill level zone 0.75 africa tenke fungurume 1.31 33 table of contents drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. the following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: average drill hole spacing (in meters) proven probable mining unit mill leach mill leach north america morenci open pit 86 86 122 122 bagdad open pit 86 86 122 122 safford open pit 86 122 sierrita open pit 73 104 miami open pit 61 91 chino open pit 43 86 86 122 tyrone open pit 86 86 henderson block cave 38 85 climax open pit 61 91 cobre open pit 61 61 91 91 south america cerro verde open pit 50 50 100 100 el abra open pit 75 120 indonesia grasberg open pit 35 82 deep ore zone block cave 29 57 big gossan open stope 12 36 grasberg block cave 34 80 kucing liar block cave 39 99 deep mill level zone block cave 16 61 africa tenke fungurume open pit 50 100 34 table of contents production sequencing the following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body and from related stockpiles. the chart also shows the term of pt-fi's cow. production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. the ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. in addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below. mill and leach stockpiles mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from an ore body and are available for copper recovery. mill stockpiles contain sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. leach stockpiles contain oxide ores and certain secondary sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. 35 table of contents expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. total copper recovery in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including processing methodology, processing variables, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 80 percent of total copper recovery may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of december 31, 2014 : recoverable million average recovery copper metric tons ore grade (%) rate (%) (billion pounds) mill stockpiles cerro verde 131 0.37 81.4 0.9 leach stockpiles morenci 5,730 0.24 2.4 0.7 bagdad 498 0.25 2.0 0.1 safford 187 0.41 15.2 0.3 sierrita 650 0.15 11.4 0.2 miami 494 0.39 3.2 0.1 chino 1,665 0.26 5.2 0.5 tyrone 1,107 0.28 2.7 0.2 cerro verde 479 0.51 3.4 0.2 el abra 592 0.43 7.7 0.4 tenke fungurume 39 1.26 91.2 1.0 11,441 3.7 total fcx - 100% basis 4.6 total fcx - consolidated basis a 4.5 total fcx - net equity interest b 3.3 a. consolidated represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint venture partner's interest in the morenci mine in north america. b. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. mineralized material we hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. however, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $2.20 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold and $12 per pound for molybdenum. 36 table of contents mineralized material estimated at december 31, 2014 milling material leaching material total mineralized material million million million fcx's metric copper gold moly silver metric copper metric interest tons % g/t % g/t tons % tons north america morenci 85% 1,042 0.27 0.02 1,085 0.21 2,127 bagdad 100% 652 0.27 a 0.02 1.3 6 0.17 658 safford 100% 272 0.61 0.11 2.3 47 0.29 319 sierrita 100% 1,535 0.18 a 0.02 1.1 1,535 chino 100% 163 0.43 0.03 0.01 0.4 30 0.28 193 tyrone 100% 31 0.33 31 henderson 100% 226 0.12 226 climax 100% 460 0.15 460 cobre 100% 31 0.50 0.07 1.2 5 0.33 36 ajo 100% 434 0.40 0.06 0.01 0.8 434 cochise/bisbee 100% 254 0.46 254 lone star 100% 656 0.44 656 sanchez 100% 180 0.29 180 tohono 100% 152 0.69 165 0.68 317 twin buttes 100% 73 0.62 0.04 6.4 44 0.23 117 christmas 100% 245 0.39 0.05 a 1.0 245 south america cerro verde 53.56% 272 0.34 0.01 1.4 5 0.40 277 el abra 51% 1,765 0.46 0.02 0.01 1.5 187 0.30 1,952 indonesia grasberg minerals district 54.38% b 2,489 0.67 0.60 3.6 2,489 africa tenke fungurume c 56% 49 4.05 21 2.99 70 kisanfu c 95% 49 2.48 47 3.16 96 total fcx - 100% basis 9,909 2,763 12,672 total fcx - consolidated basis d 8,756 2,600 11,356 total fcx - net equity interest e 7,602 2,494 10,096 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. fcx's interest in the grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership. c. stated tonnage also includes cobalt at tenke fungurume (0.33 percent) and kisanfu (1.15 percent). d. consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for our joint venture partners' interest in the morenci mine and the grasberg minerals district. e. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. 37 table of contents oil and gas operations as further discussed in note 2, during second-quarter 2013, we acquired oil and gas operations by completing the acquisitions of plains exploration &amp; production company (pxp) and mcmoran exploration co. (mmr), collectively fm o&amp;g. the portfolio of assets includes significant oil production facilities and growth potential in the deepwater gom, established oil production onshore and offshore california, large onshore natural gas resources in the haynesville shale play in louisiana, natural gas production from the madden area in central wyoming, and an industry-leading position in the emerging inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend located in the shallow waters of the gom and onshore in south louisiana. approximately 90 percent of our oil and gas revenues are from oil and ngls. in june 2014, fm o&amp;g completed the sale of its eagle ford shale assets. during 2014, fm o&amp;g also acquired additional interests in the deepwater gom, including interests in the lucius and heidelberg oil fields and several exploration leases in june 2014, and an interest in the vito oil discovery in the mississippi canyon area and a significant lease position in the vito basin in september 2014. refer to note 2 for further discussion of these transactions. acreage at december 31, 2014 , we owned interests in oil and gas leases covering 5.0 million gross acres ( 2.9 million acres net to our interest). the following table summarizes, by geographic area, the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage in which we held interests at december 31, 2014 : developed undeveloped gross acres net acres gross acres net acres u.s.: louisiana: onshore 403,860 81,034 207,870 160,487 offshore 363,162 210,342 1,058,752 673,251 texas: onshore 21,526 4,358 3,760 745 offshore 46,080 26,850 california: onshore 60,898 60,406 63,755 39,970 offshore 43,335 39,062 wyoming 80,692 13,688 65,527 51,965 nevada 246,073 246,073 other states 2,984 449 217,610 165,846 1,022,537 436,189 1,863,347 1,338,337 morocco 2,154,014 1,120,087 1,022,537 436,189 4,017,361 2,458,424 approximately 35 percent of our total u.s. net undeveloped acres are covered by leases that expire from 2015 to 2017. as a result of the decrease in crude oil prices, our current plans anticipate that the majority of expiring acreage will not be retained by drilling operations or other means. the exploration permits covering our morocco acreage expire in 2016; however, we have the ability to extend the exploration permits through 2019. oil and gas properties our oil and gas properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, including other mineral encumbrances and restrictions. we do not believe that any of these burdens materially interfere with our use of the properties in the operation of our business. we believe that we have satisfactory title to or rights in all of our producing properties. as is customary in the oil and gas industry, we make minimal investigation of title at the time we acquire undeveloped properties. we make title investigations and receive title opinions of local counsel only before we commence drilling operations. we believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our other assets. although title to our properties is subject to encumbrances in certain cases, we believe that none of these burdens will materially detract from the value of our properties or from our interest therein or will materially interfere with our use in the operation of our business. 38 table of contents following are descriptions of our primary u.s. oil and gas properties: gulf of mexico . deepwater gom. our deepwater gom portfolio includes a 100 percent working interest in the holstein, horn mountain, marlin, dorado and king fields, a 31 percent working interest in the ram powell field, a 33.3 percent working interest in the hoover field, a 12.5 percent working interest in the heidelberg field, and an 18.67 percent interest in the vito field. additionally, our subsidiary plains offshore operations inc. (plains offshore), holds a 20 percent working interest in the lucius development and a 50 percent working interest in the phobos discovery. fm o&amp;g's combined ownership in the lucius development, including the 20 percent held by plains offshore, is 25.1 percent. refer to note 2 for further discussion of plains offshore. following is a summary of our deepwater gom platforms at december 31, 2014: capacity per day platform field location type of platform production commenced water depth (feet) oil (mbbls) gas (mmcf) holstein a green canyon blocks 644, 645 and 688 truss spar 2004 4,300 113 142 horn mountain a mississippi canyon blocks 126 and 127 truss spar 2002 5,400 75 72 marlin hub a several b tension leg 2000 3,200 60 235 ram powell viosca knoll blocks 911 to 913 and 955 to 957 tension leg 1997 3,200 70 310 hoover several c deep draft caisson vessel 2000 4,800 100 325 lucius keathley canyon blocks 874,875,918 and 919 truss spar 2015 7,200 80 450 a. we are the operator of the holstein, horn mountain and marlin hub platforms. b. the marlin hub is the production facility for three fields: the marlin field (s/2 viosca knoll block 871 and n/2 viosca knoll block 915), the dorado field (s/2 viosca knoll block 915) and the king field (mississippi canyon blocks 84, 85, 128 and 129). the marlin field currently produces via a combination of platform and subsea tie-back wells while the dorado and king fields currently produce exclusively via subsea wells and tie-back infrastructure. c. the hoover platform is located in alaminos canyon block 25. the hoover field is located in alaminos canyon blocks 25 and 26. as further described in note 2, during 2014, fm o&amp;g completed the acquisition of deepwater gom interests, including interests in the heidelberg oil field and several exploration leases, and in the vito oil discovery and a significant lease position in the vito area. we have a 12.5 percent interest in heidelberg, a large, high-quality oil development project located in 5,300 feet of water in the green canyon area. the heidelberg truss spar was designed as a lucius-look-alike facility with capacity of 80 mbbls of oil per day. development drilling is in progress and the project remains on track for first production in 2016. we have an 18.67 percent interest in vito, a large, deep subsalt miocene oil discovery made in 2009, located in 4,000 feet of water in the mississippi canyon area (blocks 940, 941, 984 and 985). exploration and appraisal drilling in recent years confirmed a significant resource in high-quality, subsalt miocene sands. development options are under evaluation. our deepwater gom exploration portfolio includes interests in 169 blocks containing 70 prospects in the pliocene, miocene and lower tertiary reservoirs. gom shelf. our gom shelf properties are primarily located on the outer continental shelf in the shallow waters (less than 500 feet of water) of the gom and onshore in the gulf coast area of louisiana, with drilling depths not exceeding 15,000 feet considered to be traditional shelf prospects. 39 table of contents inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous. prospects with drilling depths below the salt weld (generally at depths exceeding 25,000 feet) are considered inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous prospects. california . onshore california. we hold a 100 percent working interest in the majority of our los angeles basin properties in the inglewood, las cienegas, montebello, packard and san vicente fields, and a 100 percent working interest in the majority of our san joaquin basin properties in the cymric, midway sunset and south belridge fields. the los angeles basin properties are characterized by light crude oil (21 to 32 degree american petroleum institute (api) gravity), have well depths ranging from 2,000 feet to over 10,000 feet and include both primary production and mature wells using waterflood recovery methods (whereby water is injected into the reservoir formation to displace residual oil), where producing wells have a high ratio of water produced compared to total liquids produced (high water cuts). the san joaquin basin properties are long-lived fields that have heavier oil (12 to 16 degree api gravity) and shallow wells (generally less than 2,000 feet) that require enhanced oil recovery techniques, including steam injection, and produce with high water cuts. we also hold a 100 percent working interest in the arroyo grande field located in san luis obispo county, which is a long-lived field that has heavier oil (12 to 16 degree api gravity) and well depths averaging 1,700 feet requiring continuous steam injection. offshore california. all of our offshore california properties are located in federal waters approximately five to seven miles offshore in the santa maria basin. we hold a 69.3 percent working interest in the point arguello unit, composed of the hidalgo, hermosa and harvest platforms, and the various partnerships owning the related transportation, processing and marketing infrastructure. we also hold a 100 percent working interest in the point pedernales field, which includes the irene platform, that is utilized to access the federal outer continental shelf monterey reservoir by extended reach directional wells and support facilities which lie within the onshore lompoc field. haynesville . the haynesville shale play is characterized by gas production from the jurassic aged haynesville shale formation in louisiana, and typical well depth is 10,500 feet. the area has historically been developed with approximately 4,000 foot horizontal wells at a measured total depth of 16,000 feet. madden . we own an approximate 14 percent working interest in the madden deep unit and lost cabin gas plant located in central wyoming. the madden deep unit is a federal unit operated by a third party and consists of acreage in the wind river basin. the madden area is characterized by gas production from multiple stratigraphic horizons of the lower fort union, lance, mesaverde and cody sands and the madison dolomite. production from the madden deep unit is typically found at depths ranging from 5,500 to 25,000 feet. exploration and development activities our oil and gas business has significant proved, probable and possible reserves, a broad range of development opportunities and high-potential exploration prospects. the business is managed to reinvest its cash flows in projects with attractive rates of returns and risk profiles. following the recent sharp decline in oil prices, we have taken steps to significantly reduce capital spending plans and near-term oil and gas growth initiatives in order to preserve cash flows and its resources for anticipated improved market conditions in the future. we are also evaluating third-party participation in our oil and gas projects to provide additional funding. fm o&amp;g has a large strategic position in the deepwater gom with significant current oil production, strong cash margins and existing infrastructure and facilities with excess capacity. these assets, combined with fm o&amp;g's large leasehold interests in an established geologic basin, provide financially attractive investment opportunities for high-impact growth in oil production and cash margins. fm o&amp;g's capital allocation strategy is principally focused on drilling and development opportunities that can be tied back to existing facilities. capital expenditures for oil and gas operations totaled $3.2 billion in 2014 and $1.45 billion for the seven month period ending december 31, 2013. capital expenditures for oil and gas operations for the year 2015 are currently estimated to total $2.3 billion , with approximately 80 percent of the 2015 capital budget expected to be directed to its highest return focus areas in the gom. we are committed to achieving our objective of funding oil and gas capital expenditures with oil and gas cash flows, third-party joint venture transactions or asset sales. fm o&amp;g is engaged in discussions to obtain funding from industry partners and other oil and gas market participants for a substantial portion of its 2015 capital expenditures to achieve this objective. third-party funding could also enable fm o&amp;g to complete additional development wells for production. 40 table of contents refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of current exploration and development activities at our oil and gas operations. production and sales data the following table presents summary production data, average realized prices and average production costs for our oil and gas operations for the year ended december 31, 2014 and the seven-month period ending december 31, 2013: year ended december 31, 2014 gom a california haynesville/madden/other eagle ford b total c oil sales (mbbls) 19,681 13,732 222 6,481 40,116 natural gas sales (mmcf) production 28,700 3,558 42,364 7,410 82,032 less: fuel used in our operations 1,190 1,190 sales 28,700 2,368 42,364 7,410 80,842 ngl sales (mbbls) 2,027 171 35 978 3,211 mboe production 26,491 14,496 7,318 8,694 56,999 sales 26,491 14,298 7,318 8,694 56,801 average realizations, excluding derivatives oil (per barrel) $ 92.76 natural gas (per mmbtu) $ 4.37 ngls (per barrel) $ 39.73 average cost per boe production costs d $ 18.00 production and ad valorem taxes 2.08 cash production costs e $ 20.08 seven-month period ending december 31, 2013 gom a california haynesville/madden/other eagle ford total c oil sales (mbbls) 11,364 7,977 83 7,206 26,630 natural gas sales (mmcf) production 17,231 2,098 26,782 8,844 54,955 less: fuel used in our operations 780 780 sales 17,231 1,318 26,782 8,844 54,175 ngl sales (mbbls) 1,049 97 27 1,244 2,417 mboe production 15,286 8,423 4,574 9,924 38,207 sales 15,286 8,293 4,574 9,924 38,077 average realizations, excluding derivatives oil (per barrel) $ 99.67 natural gas (per mmbtu) $ 3.73 ngls (per barrel) $ 38.20 average cost per boe production costs d $ 15.18 production and ad valorem taxes 1.96 cash production costs e $ 17.14 a. includes properties in the deepwater gom and on the shelf. b. includes the results of eagle ford through june 19, 2014. c. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, no individual fields represented 15 percent or more of our proved oil and gas reserves. d. reflects costs incurred to operate and maintain wells and related equipment and facilities. 41 table of contents e. refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of cash production costs per boe and for a reconciliation to production and delivery costs reported in our consolidated financial statements. oil and natural gas reserves our reserve volumes have been determined in accordance with the current regulations and guidelines established by the sec, which require the use of an average price, calculated as the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference price as adjusted for location and quality differentials, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions and the impact of derivatives. reference prices for reserve determination are the wti spot price for crude oil and the henry hub spot price for natural gas. at december 31, 2014 , our estimates were based on reference prices of $94.99 per barrel and $4.35 per mmbtu. all of our oil and natural gas reserves are located in the u.s. proved reserves. all of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves at december 31, 2014 , are based upon reserve reports prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firms of netherland, sewell &amp; associates, inc. (nsai) and ryder scott company, l.p. (ryder scott). the scope and results of procedures employed by nsai and ryder scott are summarized in letters that are filed as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. for purposes of reserve estimation, we and our independent petroleum engineers used technical and economic data including well logs, geologic maps, seismic data, well test data, production data, historical price and cost information, and property ownership interests. our reserves have been estimated using deterministic methods. standard engineering and geoscience methods were used, or a combination of methods, including performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy, which we and our independent petroleum engineers considered to be appropriate and necessary to categorize and estimate reserves in accordance with sec definitions and regulations. a substantial portion of these reserves are for undeveloped locations; such reserves are based on estimates of reserve volumes and recovery efficiencies along with analogy to properties with similar geologic and reservoir characteristics. because these estimates depend on many assumptions, any or all of which may differ substantially from actual results, reserve estimates may differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that we ultimately recover. proved reserves represent quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. the term reasonable certainty implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. at december 31, 2014 , our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves totaled 390 mmboe, of which 74 percent was comprised of oil (including ngls). proved oil and natural gas reserves estimated at december 31, 2014 oil a natural gas total (mmbbls) (bcf) (mmboe) proved developed: gom 69 118 89 california 114 22 118 haynesville/madden/other 1 229 39 184 369 246 proved undeveloped: gom 69 57 79 california 35 3 35 haynesville/madden/other 181 30 104 241 144 total proved reserves 288 610 390 a. includes 10 mmbbls of ngl proved reserves, consisting of 7 mmbbls of proved developed and 3 mmbbls of proved undeveloped. at december 31, 2014 , we have an estimated total proved reserve life of 8.1 years and a proved developed reserve life of 5.1 years. at december 31, 2014 , proved undeveloped reserves represented 37 percent of our total proved reserves. with the exception of one planned sidetrack development well in one of our deepwater gom properties that cannot be executed until the current producing well depletes, 96 percent of our proved undeveloped reserves are scheduled 42 table of contents for development within five years, and $3.2 billion (or 95 percent) of our estimated future proved undeveloped capital is associated with the development of those reserves. total estimated proved undeveloped reserves of 144 mmboe at december 31, 2014, decreased by 13 mmboe from estimated proved undeveloped reserves of 157 mmboe at december 31, 2013. during the year 2014, we invested $657 million and converted 25 mmboe from proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves. in addition, during the year 2014, we sold proved undeveloped reserves totaling 15 mmboe associated with the eagle ford properties. partly offsetting the decreases in proved undeveloped reserves during the year 2014, were additions of 16 mmboe from the acquisition of interests in the deepwater gom (including interests in the lucius and heidelberg oil fields) and 9 mmboe through extensions and discoveries primarily associated with continued successful development in the deepwater gom at horn mountain. we also had net upward revisions to proved undeveloped reserves totaling 2 mmboe primarily related to the improved gas price realizations in the haynesville shale play, which was mostly offset by downward revisions resulting from deferred development plans, as well as lower oil price realizations and higher steam-related operating expenses resulting from higher natural gas prices for certain onshore california properties. during the year ended december 31, 2014 , we participated in 50 gross exploratory wells, of which 46 were successful, and 261 gross development wells, of which 259 were successful (refer to "drilling activities"). during this period, proved reserve additions from extensions and discoveries totaled 16 mmboe. the following table reflects the present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes from the production and sale of our estimated proved reserves reconciled to the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows (standardized measure) at december 31, 2014 (in millions): estimated undiscounted future net cash flows before income taxes $ 12,065 present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes (pv-10) a,b $ 8,142 discounted future income taxes (1,721 ) standardized measure (refer to note 21) $ 6,421 a. in accordance with sec guidelines, estimates of future net cash flows from our proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference prices as adjusted for location and quality differentials. reference prices as of december 31, 2014 , were $94.99 per barrel of oil and $4.35 per mmbtu of natural gas. these prices are held constant throughout the life of the oil and gas properties, except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. in accordance with the guidelines and excluding the impact of derivative instruments, the average realized prices used in our reserve reports as of december 31, 2014 , were $93.20 per barrel of oil and $4.35 per mcf of natural gas. our reference prices are the wti spot price for crude oil and the henry hub spot price for natural gas. b. the present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes (pv-10) is not considered a u.s. generally accepted accounting principle (gaap) financial measure. we believe that our pv-10 presentation is an important measure and useful to our investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves before taking into account the related future income taxes, as such taxes may differ among companies because of differences in the amounts and timing of deductible basis, net operating loss carryforwards and other factors. we believe investors use our pv-10 as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our proved reserves to the reserve estimates of other companies. pv-10 is not a measure of financial or operating performance under u.s. gaap and is not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. pv-10 should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under u.s. gaap. refer to note 21 for further discussion of our proved reserves. probable reserves. all of our estimated probable oil and natural gas reserves at december 31, 2014 , are based upon reserve reports prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firms of nsai and ryder scott. probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves, but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. in addition to the uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves, probable reserves may be assigned to areas where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonably certain criterion. probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. probable reserve estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the 43 table of contents hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves. undeveloped reserves that meet the reasonably certain, economic and other requirements to be classified as proved undeveloped, except that they are not expected to be developed within five years, are classified as probable reserves. at december 31, 2014 , our estimated probable oil and natural gas reserves totaled 245 mmboe, of which 81 percent was comprised of oil (including ngls). probable oil and natural gas reserves estimated at december 31, 2014 oil a natural gas total (mmbbls) (bcf) (mmboe) probable developed b : gom 27 33 32 california 8 8 haynesville/madden/other 6 1 35 39 41 probable undeveloped: gom 81 75 93 california 83 22 87 haynesville/madden/other 142 24 164 239 204 total probable reserves 199 278 245 a. includes 7 mmbbls of ngl probable reserves, consisting of 2 mmbbls of probable developed and 5 mmbbls of probable undeveloped. b. reflects reserves associated with incremental recovery from existing production/injection wells that require minimal to no future development costs and reserves associated with work performed on existing producers/injectors that do not meet the reasonable certainty requirements to be classified as proved reserves. internal control and qualifications of third party engineers and internal staff. the technical personnel responsible for preparing the reserve estimates at nsai and ryder scott meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserves information promulgated by the society of petroleum engineers. both nsai and ryder scott are independent firms of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists; neither firm owns an interest in our properties nor are employed on a contingent fee basis. our internal reservoir engineering staff are led and overseen by our vice president of engineering, who has over 38 years of technical experience in petroleum engineering and reservoir evaluation and analysis. this individual directs the activities of our internal reservoir staff for the internal reserve estimation process and also to provide the appropriate data to nsai and ryder scott for our year-end oil and natural gas reserves estimation process. drilling activities the following table provides the total number of wells that we drilled during the year ended december 31, 2014 , and the seven month period ending december 31, 2013 : year ended seven month period ending december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 gross net gross net exploratory productive: oil 25 21 40 35 gas 21 2 25 2 dry 4 3 1 1 50 26 66 38 development productive: oil 184 174 71 66 gas 75 10 23 8 dry 2 1 1 261 184 95 75 311 210 161 113 44 table of contents in addition to the wells drilled during 2014, there were 43 gross exploratory and 38 gross development wells (11 net exploratory and 8 net development wells) in progress at december 31, 2014 , including 59 gross wells (7 net wells) in progress in the haynesville shale play. in addition to the wells drilled during 2013, there were 36 gross exploratory and 60 gross development wells (23 net exploratory and 19 net development wells) in progress at december 31, 2013 , including 50 gross wells (5 net wells) in progress in the haynesville shale play and 36 gross wells (31 net wells) in progress in the eagle ford shale play. productive wells at december 31, 2014 , we had working interests in 3,069 gross (2,991 net) active producing wells and 1,710 gross (211 net) active producing natural gas wells. at december 31, 2013 , we had working interests in 3,310 gross (3,153 net) active producing oil wells and 1,651 gross (238 net) active producing natural gas wells. one or more completions in the same well bore are considered one well. if any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion, such well is classified as an oil well. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, we owned interests in five gross wells containing multiple completions. item 1a. risk factors. this report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of united states (u.s.) federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as projections or expectations relating to ore grades and milling rates; production and sales volumes; unit net cash costs; cash production costs per barrel of oil equivalent (boe); operating cash flows; capital expenditures; exploration efforts and results; development and production activities and costs; liquidity; tax rates; the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum, cobalt crude oil and natural gas price changes; the impact of derivative positions; the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings; reserve estimates; future dividend payments; debt reduction; and share purchases. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. we caution readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following: financial risks declines in the market prices of copper, gold and/or oil could adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and asset values and, if sustained, could adversely affect our ability to repay debt. fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold or oil can cause significant volatility in our financial performance and adversely affect the trading prices of our debt and common stock. our financial results vary with fluctuations in the market prices of the commodities we produce, primarily copper, gold and oil, and to a lesser extent molybdenum, silver, cobalt and natural gas. for further information about the market prices of our primary commodities, including the declines in copper and oil prices since mid-2014, refer to the discussion below and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a). a substantial or extended decline in the market prices of these commodities could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, the value of our assets and/or our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations, and could depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. additionally, if the market prices for the commodities we produce decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, halting or delaying expansion projects, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. we may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may incur losses. fluctuations in commodities prices can occur because of varied and complex factors beyond our control, including global supply and demand balances and inventory levels of the commodities we sell; global economic and political conditions; government regulatory, trade and tax policies; commodities investment activity and speculation; the price and availability of substitute products; and changes in technology. 45 table of contents in particular, copper prices may be affected by demand from china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world, and by changes in demand for industrial, commercial and residential products containing copper. factors particularly affecting gold prices may include the relative strength of the u.s. dollar to other currencies, inflation and interest rate expectations, purchases and sales of gold by governments and central banks, demand from china and india, two of the world ' largest consumers of gold, and demand for jewelry containing gold. crude oil prices may be affected by continued development of shale reserves through hydraulic fracturing, actions of the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other major oil producing nations, political and weather conditions in oil producing regions, transportation and refinery capacity, the amount of foreign imports of oil into the u.s., and potential changes in u.s. laws restricting oil exports. since the second half of 2014, oil prices have declined significantly. after averaging $109 per barrel in the first half of 2014, brent crude oil prices averaged $90 per barrel for the second half of 2014 and declined to $57.33 per barrel on december 31, 2014, and were $60.22 per barrel on february 20, 2015 . lower oil prices, and to a lesser extent natural gas prices, were a contributing factor to the $5.5 billion of non-cash impairment charges recorded for the year ended december 31, 2014, to write-down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties and reduce the goodwill associated with our oil and gas operations to zero. refer to notes 1 and 2 and md&amp;a for further discussion of these impairment charges. sustained weaker oil and natural gas prices could result in additional impairments of our oil and gas properties. copper prices have also declined. during 2014, the london metal exchange (lme) spot copper prices ranged from a low of $2.86 per pound to a high of $3.38 per pound and averaged $3.11 per pound. the lme spot copper price closed at $2.88 per pound on december 31, 2014, and has declined to $2.59 per pound on february 20, 2015. sustained lower copper prices could result in impairment of our long-lived mining assets and/or lower of cost or market inventory adjustments. refer to note 1 and md&amp;a for further discussion of our accounting policies and estimates used in evaluating impairment of our long-lived assets and our oil and gas properties. our debt and other financial commitments may limit our financial and operating flexibility. at december 31, 2014 , our total consolidated debt was $ 19.0 billion (see note 8) and our total consolidated cash was $464 million . we also have various other financial commitments, including for reclamation and environmental obligations, take-or-pay contracts and leases. our level of indebtedness and other financial commitments could have important consequences to our business, including the following: limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we operate; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, to engage in future development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. in addition, a future downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our cost of and ability to access capital. at february 20, 2015, our senior unsecured debt was rated "bbb-" with a stable outlook by standard and poor's, "bbb" with a stable outlook by fitch ratings, and "baa3" with a stable outlook by moody's investors service. we cannot be assured that our credit ratings will not be downgraded in the future. in addition, a downgrade could affect our requirements to provide significant financial assurance of our performance under certain legal requirements and contractual arrangements. refer to the following risk factor for more information. 46 table of contents mine closure and reclamation regulations impose substantial costs on our operations, and include requirements that we provide financial assurance supporting those obligations. we also have plugging and abandonment obligations related to our oil and gas operations, and are required to provide bonds or other forms of financial assurance in connection with those operations. changes in or the failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. we are required by u.s. federal and state mining laws to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans if we are unable to do so. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and state agencies may also seek financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions that are required under settlements of enforcement actions under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act (cercla) or equivalent state regulations. with respect to our mining operations, most of our financial assurance obligations are imposed by state laws that vary significantly by jurisdiction. currently there are no financial assurance requirements for active mining operations under cercla, but in 2009, the epa published a notice identifying classes of facilities within the hardrock mining industry for which the agency will develop financial responsibility requirements under cercla. the epa has indicated that it intends to propose regulations regarding hardrock mining financial responsibility in august 2016. the epa's schedule has been challenged by environmental groups, which are petitioning the court to require the epa to finalize such regulations by january 2016. it is uncertain how the new requirements, if promulgated, will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations. we are also subject to financial assurance requirements in connection with our oil and gas operations under both state and federal laws. for example, permits, bonding and insurance are required to drill, operate, and plug and abandon wells. also, the bureau of ocean energy management (boem) and the bureau of safety and environmental enforcement (bsee) regulations applicable to lessees in federal waters require that lessees have substantial u.s. assets and net worth or post bonds or other acceptable financial assurance that the regulatory obligations will be met. financial responsibility requirements are also required under the oil pollution act of 1990 to cover containment and cleanup costs resulting from an oil spill. boem has signaled its intention to redesign and implement revised financial assurance requirements associated with offshore plugging and abandonment obligations. boem has recently taken a stricter approach regarding the level of decommissioning liabilities to be included in its financial test for purposes of determining eligibility for exemption from financial assurance requirements. it is uncertain whether additional changes will be implemented by the boem and how these changes might affect the form and amount of our existing and future financial assurance obligations associated with our offshore activities in federal waters. as of december 31, 2014 , our financial assurance obligations associated with closure, reclamation and remediation in our mining and plugging and abandonment obligations in our oil and gas operations totaled approximately $2.6 billion, and a substantial portion of these obligations were satisfied by fcx and fm o&amp;g guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. if our financial condition were to deteriorate substantially or our credit rating were downgraded, we may be required to provide additional or alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. these other forms of assurance would be costly to provide and, depending on our financial condition and market conditions, may be difficult or impossible to obtain. failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of mines or suspension of the affected oil and gas operations. refer to notes 1 and 12 , for further discussion of our environmental and asset retirement obligations. international risks our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in countries outside the u.s. we are a u.s.-based natural resource company with substantial mining assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru, chile and the democratic republic of congo (drc). our oil and gas operations are located in the u.s., except that we expect to commence drilling at our first international oil and gas prospect offshore morocco in the first half of 2015. accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in countries outside the u.s., our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. risks of conducting business in countries outside of the u.s. include: 47 table of contents renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts; expropriation or nationalization of property; changes in another country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, which because of rising "resource nationalism" in countries around the world, may impose increasingly onerous requirements on foreign operations and investment; political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; changes in the aspirations and expectations of local communities in which we operate with respect to our contributions to employee health and safety, infrastructure and community development and other factors that may affect our social license to operate, all of which lead to increased costs; foreign exchange controls and movements in foreign currency exchange rates; and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of an international court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. may be substantially affected by many unpredictable factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our international operations must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we operate. there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws. any violation of these laws could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax disputes with the indonesian and peruvian tax authorities (refer to note 12 for further discussion of these matters). other risks specific to certain countries in which we operate are discussed in more detail below. because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia. our mining operations in indonesia are conducted by our subsidiary pt freeport indonesia (pt-fi) pursuant to a contract of work (cow) with the indonesian government. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because of the significance of our indonesia operations to our business, and because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our indonesia operations have been the subject of political debates and of criticism in the indonesian press, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. in 2009, indonesia enacted a mining law (2009 mining law), which operates under a licensing system that is less protective of licensees than the contract of work system that governs pt-fi. the 2009 mining law and the regulations issued pursuant to that law provide that contracts of work would continue to be honored until their expiration. however, the regulations, including those issued in january 2014, attempt to apply certain provisions of the 2009 mining law and regulations to existing contracts of work and seek to apply the licensing system to any extension periods of contracts of work. in january 2012, the president of indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team of ministers to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 mining law and to take steps to assess and determine the indonesian government's position on reduction to the size of contract concessions, increasing government revenues and domestic processing of minerals. 48 table of contents pt-fi has been engaged in discussions with officials of the indonesian government since 2012 regarding various provisions of its cow. the indonesian government has sought to modify existing mining contracts, including pt-fi's cow, to address provisions of the 2009 mining law and subsequent regulations, including with respect to the size of contract concessions, government revenues, domestic processing of minerals, divestment, provision of local services, conversion from a cow to a licensing framework for extension periods, and a requirement that extensions may be applied for only within two years prior to a cow's expiration. in january 2014, the indonesian government published regulations providing that holders of contracts of work with existing processing facilities in indonesia may continue to export product through january 12, 2017, but established new requirements for the continued export of copper concentrates, including the imposition of a progressive export duty on copper concentrates. despite pt-fi's rights under its cow to export concentrates without the payment of duties, pt-fi was unable to obtain administrative approval for exports and operated at approximately half of its capacity from mid-january 2014 through july 2014. on july 25, 2014, pt-fi and the indonesian government entered into a memorandum of understanding (mou) under which pt-fi and the government agreed to negotiate an amended cow to address provisions related to the size of pt-fi's concession area, royalties and taxes, domestic processing and refining, divestment, local content, and continuation of operations post-2021. execution of the mou enabled the resumption of concentrate exports, which began in august 2014. the mou has been extended to july 25, 2015. pt-fi is engaged in active discussions with the indonesian government regarding an amended cow. provisions being addressed in the negotiation of an amended cow include the development of new copper smelting and refining capacity in indonesia, divestment to the indonesian government and/or indonesian nationals of up to a 30 percent interest (an additional 20.64 percent interest) in pt-fi at fair value, and timely granting rights for the continuation of operations from 2022 through 2041. negotiations are taking into consideration pt-fi's need for assurance of legal and fiscal terms post-2021 for pt-fi to continue with its large-scale investment program for the development of its underground reserves. effective with the signing of the mou, pt-fi provided a $115 million assurance bond to support its commitment for smelter development, agreed to increase royalties to 4.0 percent for copper and 3.75 percent for gold from the previous rates of 3.5 percent for copper and 1.0 percent for gold, and pay export duties as set forth in a new regulation. the indonesian government revised its january 2014 regulations regarding export duties, which are now set at 7.5 percent , declining to 5.0 percent when smelter development progress exceeds 7.5 percent and are eliminated when development progress exceeds 30 percent . pt-fi is advancing plans for the construction of new smelter capacity in parallel with completing of negotiations of its long-term operating rights and will also discuss the possibility of expanding industrial activities in papua in connection with its long-term development plans. pt-fi has identified a site adjacent to the existing pt smelting site in gresik, indonesia, for the construction of additional smelter capacity. under the mou, no terms of the cow other than those relating to the export duties, smelter bond and royalties described above will be changed until the completion of an amended cow. the revisions to the cow are expected to result in additional costs for our indonesian operations. we cannot predict whether we will be successful in reaching a satisfactory agreement on the terms of our long-term mining rights. if we are unable to reach agreement with the government on our long-term rights, we may be required to reduce or defer investments in our underground development projects, which would negatively impact future production and reserves. in addition, we are required to apply for renewal of export permits at six-month intervals and the next renewal date is july 25, 2015. we cannot predict if such permits will be granted on a timely basis or whether we will be permitted to export concentrates after july 25, 2015. in january 2015, the indonesian government issued regulations that require letters of credit to be posted to secure export sales of goods, which may impact pt-fi and pt smelting. such regulations are contrary to our cow, but it is possible that the indonesian government may seek to impose such requirements on pt-fi. these requirements could result in additional costs as well as administrative complexities, which could impact the ability to obtain customs clearance to export concentrates in a timely manner. indonesia has also faced separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. several separatist groups have sought increased political independence for the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but 49 table of contents highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military. in addition, illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted for years to move them away from our facilities. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our indonesia operations. since july 2009, there have been violent incidents in and around the grasberg minerals district, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations, which have resulted in 20 fatalities and 59 injuries. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt-fi continues to work with the indonesian government to address security issues. the investigation of these incidents is ongoing. we also continue to limit the use of the road leading to our mining and milling operations to secured convoys. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our indonesian operations. if other disruptive incidents occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict at this time. for further discussion of labor disruptions at pt-fi, refer to the operational risk factor "labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects." we will not mine all of our ore reserves in indonesia before the initial term of our cow expires. the initial term of pt-fi's cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and our current mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current cow. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 23 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2014 , representing 30 percent of pt-fi's share of recoverable copper reserves and 40 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve our cow extensions. for further discussion, refer to the above risk factor "because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia." pt-fi's cow may be subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel. pt-fi's cow was entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. the cow may be subject to termination by the indonesian government if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. certain indonesian laws and regulations may conflict with the mining rights established under the cow. although the cow grants to pt-fi the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the cow, government agencies may seek to impose additional restrictions on pt-fi that could affect exploration and operating requirements. for further discussion, refer to the above risk factor "because our grasberg minerals district is our most significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia." at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the indonesian government prior to may 1998 ( i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt-fi's cow, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the cow will not be challenged for political or other reasons. pt-fi's cow requires that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. accordingly, if a dispute arises under the cow, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of an international arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. additionally, our operations may be adversely affected while resolution of a dispute is pending. 50 table of contents the tenke fungurume (tenke) minerals district is located in the katanga province of the drc, and may be adversely affected by security risks and political, economic and social instability in the drc. since gaining independence in 1960, the drc has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crises. the drc held its first democratic elections in 2006. president joseph kabila, elected in 2006 and currently serving his second term, is not eligible under the drc constitution for reelection. the next presidential election is scheduled to be held in 2016. these factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. as part of a review of all mining contracts by the ministry of mines (the ministry) in the drc, in february 2008, we received notification that the ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of tenke fungurume mining s.a.'s (tfm) mining contracts. in october 2010, the drc government concluded its review of tfm's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they are in good standing. in connection with the review, several amendments were made to tfm ' mining contracts and governing documents, and in march 2012, fcx's effective ownership in tfm was reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. political, economic, social and security risks in the drc are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business. these risks include legal and regulatory uncertainties; exposure to an environment of governmental corruption and bribery; attempts to increase taxes or claims for fees and penalties by governmental officials, including retroactive claims; administrative disputes; security risks resulting from political instability in the drc; and risk of loss because of civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. in addition to ongoing conflict in the eastern region of the drc, there have been acts of violence in the katanga province where the tenke minerals district is located. the safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority, and tfm works cooperatively with government officials to address security issues; however, no assurance can be given that conflict or random acts of violence will not occur near or impact tenke's operations. accordingly, our tenke operations and future development activities at the tenke minerals district may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could interrupt tfm ' operations or future development activities and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. operational risks our mining and oil and gas operations are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. mines by their nature are subject to many operational risks, some of which are outside of our control, and many of which are not covered fully, or in some cases even partially, by insurance. these operational risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flow, include earthquakes, floods, and other natural disasters; equipment failures; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses in our underground mines; and lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates. managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations also presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks. we maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are effectively large dams that must be engineered, constructed and monitored to assure structural stability and avoid leakages or structural collapse; our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions, and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage. in indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors. the failure of the systems or structures used to successfully manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, property damage and damage to the environment, both in and around our areas of operations, as well as damage to production facilities and delays in or curtailments of production. our oil and gas operations are also subject to operating hazards, including well blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids and pipeline ruptures, as well as natural disasters such as earthquakes, mudslides and hurricanes. our operations in california, including transportation of oil by pipelines within the city and county of los angeles, are especially susceptible to damage from earthquakes and involve increased risks of personal injury, property damage and marketing interruptions because of the population density 51 table of contents of southern california. our operations in the gulf of mexico (gom) and gulf coast region are particularly susceptible to interruption and damage from hurricanes. any of these operating hazards could cause personal injuries, fatalities, oil spills, discharge of hazardous substances into the air, soil, water and groundwater and other property or environmental damage, lost production and revenue, remediation and clean-up costs and liability for damages, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and may not be fully covered by our insurance. labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as of december 31, 2014, 48 percent of our global labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements and 28 percent of our global labor force was covered by agreements that will expire during 2015, including the agreement covering employees at our indonesia operations. none of the employees of our oil and gas operations are represented by a union or covered by a collective labor agreement. labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. refer to items 1 and 2, "business and properties," for additional information regarding labor matters, and expiration dates of such agreements. we could also experience labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, or lockouts which could adversely affect our operations. for example, our pt-fi operations experienced an eight-day work stoppage in july 2011 and an approximate three-month strike that concluded in december 2011. the strike involved civil unrest, transportation blockades, sabotage of important operating facilities and violence. operations were also temporarily suspended during first-quarter 2012 when pt-fi experienced work interruptions in connection with its efforts to resume normal operations following the strike. in october 2014, a large percentage of grasberg open-pit operators did not report to their scheduled shifts, notwithstanding approval of resumption of operations by indonesian authorities upon completion of their investigation of a fatal haul truck accident that occurred near the grasberg open-pit. significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations could significantly reduce our production and sales volumes, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water supplies. our mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. most of our mining operations in north and south america are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. at our north america mining operations, certain of our water supplies are supported by surface water rights, which allow us to use public waters for a statutorily defined beneficial use at a designated location. in arizona, where our operations use both surface and ground water, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which the arizona courts have been attempting, for over 40 years, to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems, which affect four of our operating mines (morenci, safford, sierrita and miami). the legal precedent set in these proceedings may also affect our bagdad mine. the adjudications are addressing the state law claims of thousands of competing users, including us, as well as very significant federally based water claims of u.s. interests in arizona that are potentially adverse to the claims of surface water and groundwater users under state law. groundwater is treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which historically allowed land owners to pump at will, subject to the doctrine of reasonable use. however, court decisions in one of the adjudications have concluded that groundwater pumping may affect surface water, thereby effectively making it surface water and bringing the pumping within the jurisdiction of the general stream adjudications. the effort to define the boundaries between groundwater and surface water remains contested and is currently a primary focus of one of those adjudications. because groundwater accounts for approximately 40 percent of arizona ' water supplies, the re-characterization of any significant portion of that water as surface water could jeopardize the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us, to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a significant user of both groundwater and surface water in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings. 52 table of contents in colorado, our surface water and groundwater rights are subject to adjudication and we are involved in legal proceedings to resolve disputes regarding priority and administration of rights, including priority of some of our rights for the climax molybdenum mine. in new mexico, our surface water and groundwater rights are fully licensed or have been fully adjudicated. water for our cerro verde operation in peru comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. due to occasional drought conditions and the possibility that climate change will reduce precipitation levels, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our current and planned cerro verde operations. cerro verde has completed studies to assess opportunities for additional water supplies to support current operations and potential future expansion projects. cerro verde has reached agreements with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, the local water utility servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar), and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa. cerro verde has obtained authorization to reuse an annual average of one cubic meter per second of the treated water, which is expected to supplement existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion. water for our el abra mining operation in chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval, subject to certain conditions, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. el abra has sufficient water rights and regulatory approvals to support current operations; however, a change to the sulfide ore project, such as increased production or mill processing, would require additional water beyond our allowable groundwater pumping, which is permitted through 2021. el abra is conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the pacific ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production or mill processing. although each of our mining operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, some supplies are subject to unresolved claims by others, and additional supplies that may be needed to support expanded operations are expensive, in short supply, and can be difficult to access because of logistical and legal obstacles. moreover, we cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings on our water rights, claims and uses. loss of a water right, loss of continued use of a currently available water supply, or inability to expand our water resources could materially and adversely affect our mining operations, by significantly increasing the cost of water, forcing us to curtail operations, preventing us from expanding operations or forcing premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia and africa mining operations involve additional risks because they are located in very remote areas and, in indonesia, unusually difficult terrain. the grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. these conditions have required us to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. underground mining operations can be particularly dangerous, and in may 2013, a tragic accident, which resulted in 28 fatalities and 10 injuries, occurred at pt-fi when the rock structure above the underground ceiling of a training facility collapsed. pt-fi temporarily suspended mining and processing activities at the grasberg complex to conduct inspections and resumed open-pit mining and concentrating activities on june 24, 2013, and underground operations on july 9, 2013. in april 2011, two pt-fi employees died in an accident when a portion of the doz underground mine experienced an uncontrolled muck flow. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. the tenke minerals district is located in a remote area of the drc and is subject to challenges, such as severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; difficulties in attracting and retaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria, cholera and hiv. 53 table of contents additionally, because of limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the tenke mines approximately 1,900 miles to ports in south africa. the tenke minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect their contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. we must continually replace reserves depleted by production, but our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our existing mineral and oil and natural gas reserves will be depleted over time by production from our operations. because our profits are derived from our mining and oil and gas operations, our ability to replenish our reserves is essential to our long-term success. our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of additional deposits or reservoirs that can be produced profitably. we may not be able to discover, enhance, develop or acquire reserves in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow our current reserve levels, which could negatively affect our business and prospects. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects (refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of our current development projects). the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, estimated capital and operating costs, and estimated future prices of the relevant commodity. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines, wells, or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction or drilling schedules can adversely affect project economics. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. the actual costs, production rates and economic returns of our development projects may differ materially from our estimates, which may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. operations in the deepwater gom present greater operating risks than operations in the shallower waters or onshore. in addition, our shallow water and onshore operations that target ultra-deep prospects involve greater risks and costs than conventional gom shelf and onshore gulf coast prospects. the deepwater gom presents significant challenges because of risks associated with geological complexity, water depth and higher drilling and development costs. for example, in april 2010, the deepwater horizon, an unaffiliated offshore drilling rig located in the deepwater gom, sank following an explosion and fire, resulting in fatalities and the discharge of substantial amounts of oil into the gom until mid-july 2010 when the flow of oil was finally stopped. the u.s. department of interior imposed a moratorium on deepwater drilling from may through october 2010 and also issued a series of rules and notices to lessees and operators imposing new and more stringent regulatory safety and performance requirements and permitting procedures for new wells to be drilled in the deepwater gom, all of which significantly and adversely disrupted oil and gas exploration activities in the gom and resulted in increased costs. the deepwater gom also lacks the infrastructure present in shallower waters, which can result in significant delays in obtaining or maintaining production. as a result, deepwater operations may require significant time between a discovery and marketability, thereby increasing the financial risk of these operations. our inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous exploration prospects target formations below the salt weld on the gom shelf and onshore in south louisiana. these targets have not traditionally been the subject of exploratory activity in these regions, so that little direct comparative data is available. on february 25, 2015, the highlander discovery, located onshore in south louisiana in the inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous trend, began production. prior to this date there had been no commercial production of hydrocarbons from inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous reservoirs in these areas. the lack of comparative data and the limitations of diagnostic tools operating in the extreme temperatures and pressures encountered at these depths make it difficult to predict reservoir quality and well performance of these formations. it is also significantly more risky and expensive to drill and complete wells in these formations than at more conventional depths. major contributors to such increased risks and costs include far higher temperatures and pressures encountered down hole, longer drilling times, extended procurement time and increased costs associated with the specialized equipment required to drill and complete wells in these formations. 54 table of contents our operations are subject to extensive regulations, some of which require permits and other approvals. these regulations increase our costs and in some circumstances may delay or suspend our operations. our operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that are subject to change and to changing interpretation by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with broad supervisory authority. as a natural resource company, compliance with environmental legal requirements is an integral and costly part of our business. for additional information, see "environmental risks." we are also subject to extensive regulation of worker health and safety, including the requirements of the u.s. occupational safety and health act and similar laws of other jurisdictions. in the u.s., the operation of our mines is subject to regulation by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. msha inspects our mines on a regular basis and issues citations and orders when it believes a violation has occurred. if such inspections result in an alleged violation, we may be subject to fines and penalties and, in instances of alleged significant violations, our mining operations could be subject to temporary or extended closures. our oil and gas operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations that require, among other things, permits for the drilling and operation of wells and bonding and insurance to drill, operate and plug and abandon wells, and that regulate the safety of our pipelines. our u.s. offshore operations in federal waters are subject to broad regulation by the boem/bsee, which among other things must issue permits in connection with our exploration, drilling, development and production plans. under certain circumstances boem/bsee may impose penalties and may suspend or terminate any of our operations on federal leases. many other governmental bodies regulate our operations, and our failure to comply with these legal requirements can result in substantial penalties. in addition, new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations by courts or regulatory authorities occur regularly, but are difficult to predict. any such variations could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. our business may be adversely affected by information technology disruptions. cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency, evolving in nature and include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks. however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. environmental risks our operations are subject to complex and evolving environmental laws and regulations. compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain our expansion opportunities. our operations, both in the u.s. and internationally, are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations governing the generation, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances, waste disposal, air emissions, water discharges, remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, including oil spill cleanup, mine closure and well plug and abandonment requirements, protection of endangered and protected species, and other related matters. in addition, we must obtain regulatory permits and approvals to start, continue and expand operations. laws such as cercla and similar state laws may subject us to joint and several liability for environmental damages caused by previous owners or operators of properties we acquired or are currently operating or at sites where we sent materials for processing, recycling or disposal. as discussed in more detail in the next risk factor, we have substantial obligations for environmental remediation on mining properties previously owned or operated by freeport minerals corporation (fmc) and certain of its affiliates. some of our onshore california oil and gas fields have been in operation for more than 100 years, and current or future legal requirements may require substantial expenditures to remediate the properties or to otherwise comply with these requirements. noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in material penalties or other liabilities. in addition, compliance with these laws may from time to time result in delays in or changes to our development or expansion plans. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. 55 table of contents new or revised environmental legal requirements are frequently proposed, many of which result in substantially increased costs for our business. for example, the epa has recently promulgated rules that could result in the reclassification of some mineral processing materials as "hazardous waste" under the federal resource conservation and recovery act and subject the industry to significant new and costly waste management requirements. we are seeking clarification of how those rules might affect our u.s. copper and molybdenum processing and recycling activities. other regulations under consideration by environmental regulatory agencies include provisions that would impose additional restrictions on waterway discharges and land use, regulate environmental impacts of radioactive materials associated with mining operations, and expand regulation of solid wastes, among other things. regulations are being considered at various governmental levels to increase regulation of or prohibit hydraulic fracturing. adoption of these or similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs and constrain our expansion opportunities. during 2014 , we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $405 million , compared with $595 million in 2013 and $612 million in 2012 . for 2015 , we expect to incur approximately $500 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation and plug and abandonment activities, the settlement of environmental matters and the rate at which actual spending occurs. we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on mining properties that have not been operated in many years. fmc and its subsidiaries, and many of their affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies fully understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for the remediation of hazardous substances released into the environment from properties owned or operated by them, including damages to natural resources, irrespective of when the damage to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often shared on a joint and several basis with all other prior and subsequent owners and operators, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is fully responsible for the remediation, although in many cases some or all of the other historical owners or operators no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2014 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects (including damaged natural resource claims) in 27 u.s. states. in addition, fmc and certain affiliates and predecessor companies were parties to agreements relating to the transfer of businesses or properties, which contained indemnification provisions relating to environmental matters, and which from time to time become the source of claims against us. at december 31, 2014 , we had $1.2 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributable to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases occurred many decades ago; our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and 56 table of contents our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. in addition, remediation standards for environmental media imposed by the epa and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time and may become more stringent in the future. imposition of more stringent remediation standards poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. refer to note 12 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesian government, uses the unnavigable river system in the highlands near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. in addition, overburden stockpiles are subject to erosion caused by the large amounts of rainfall, with the eroded stockpile material eventually being deposited in the lowlands tailing management area; this additional material, while predicted in our environmental studies, could influence the deposition of finer tailing material in the estuary. from time to time, certain indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than the river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, contribute to climate change. carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, and our revenues include significant sales of oil, ngls and gas, and other carbon-based energy products. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. a number of governments have introduced or are contemplating regulatory initiatives designed to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in the u.s., the epa has proposed regulations governing greenhouse gas emissions from new, modified, and existing power plants. increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may increase our costs and may also affect the demand for the oil and gas we produce. 57 table of contents other risks our holding company structure may impact our ability to service debt and our stockholders ' ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. cash at our international operations is also subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize our board of directors (the board) to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit removal of directors for cause only; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the board. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders.risk factors 49 "risk factors." copper copper is an internationally traded commodity, and its prices are determined by the major metals exchanges the london metal exchange (lme), new york mercantile exchange (nymex) and shanghai futures exchange. prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide balance of copper supply and demand, and can be volatile and cyclical. during 2015 , the lme spot copper price averaged $2.49 per pound, ranging from a low of $2.05 per pound to a high of $2.92 per pound, and was $2.13 per pound at december 31, 2015 . in general, demand for copper reflects the rate of underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and construction. according to wood mackenzie, a widely followed independent metals market consultant, copper's end-use markets (and their estimated shares of total consumption) are construction (30 percent), consumer products (28 percent), electrical applications (19 percent), transportation (12 percent) and industrial machinery (11 percent). gold gold is used for jewelry, coinage and bullion as well as various industrial and electronic applications. gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world. benchmark prices are generally based on london bullion market association (london) pm quotations. during 2015 , the london pm gold price averaged $1,160 per ounce, ranging from a low of $1,049 per ounce to a high of $1,296 per ounce, and was $1,062 per ounce at december 31, 2015 . molybdenum molybdenum is a key alloying element in steel and the raw material for several chemical-grade products used in catalysts, lubrication, smoke suppression, corrosion inhibition and pigmentation. molybdenum, as a high-purity metal, is also used in electronics such as flat-panel displays and in super alloys used in aerospace. reference prices for molybdenum are available in several publications, including metals week , ryan's notes and metal bulletin . during 2015 , the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $6.66 per pound, ranging from a low of $4.46 per pound to a high of $9.35 per pound, and was $5.23 per pound at december 31, 2015 . 4 table of contents oil oil products include transportation fuels, fuel oils for heating and electricity generation, asphalt and road oil, and the feedstocks used to make chemicals, plastics and synthetic materials. the price of crude oil is set in the global marketplace, with prices largely determined by regional benchmarks, including brent, west texas intermediate (wti) and heavy louisiana sweet. prices generally reflect the worldwide supply and demand balance, and can be volatile. during 2015, the brent crude oil price averaged $53.64 per barrel, ranging from a low of $36.11 per barrel to a high of $67.77 per barrel, and was $37.28 per barrel at december 31, 2015 . products and sales fcx's consolidated revenues for 2015 primarily included sales of copper ( 67 percent ), oil ( 11 percent ), gold ( 10 percent ) and molybdenum ( 5 percent ). oil and gas sales to phillips 66 company represented 7 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2015 and 12 percent in 2014 ; no other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in any of the past three years. refer to note 16 for a summary of our consolidated revenues and operating income (loss) by business segment and geographic area. copper products we are one of the world's leading producers of copper concentrate, cathode and continuous cast copper rod. during 2015 , 43 percent of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, 33 percent as cathode and 24 percent as rod from north america operations. our copper ore is generally processed either by smelting and refining or by solution extraction and electrowinning (sx/ew). before being subject to the smelting and refining process, ore is crushed and treated to produce a copper concentrate with copper content of approximately 20 to 30 percent. copper concentrate is then smelted ( i.e. , subjected to extreme heat) to produce copper anode, which weighs between 800 and 900 pounds each and has an average copper content of 99.5 percent. the anode is further treated by electrolytic refining to produce copper cathode, which weighs between 100 and 350 pounds each and has an average copper content of 99.99 percent. for ore subject to the sx/ew process, copper is extracted from the ore by dissolving it with a weak sulphuric acid solution. the copper content of the solution is increased in two additional solution-extraction stages, and then the copper-bearing solution undergoes an electrowinning process to produce cathode that is, on average, 99.99 percent copper. our copper cathode is used as the raw material input for copper rod, brass mill products and for other uses. copper concentrate . we produce copper concentrate at six of our mines. in north america, copper concentrate is produced at the morenci, bagdad, sierrita and chino mines, and a significant portion is shipped to our miami smelter in arizona. copper concentrate is also produced at the cerro verde mine in peru and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. copper cathode . we produce copper cathode at our electrolytic refinery located in el paso, texas, and at 10 of our mines. sx/ew cathode is produced from the morenci, bagdad, safford, sierrita, miami, chino and tyrone mines in north america; from the cerro verde and el abra mines in south america; and from the tenke minerals district in africa . copper cathode is also produced at atlantic copper (our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in spain) and pt smelting (pt-fi's 25 percent owned copper smelter and refinery in indonesia). refer to "mining operations - smelting facilities and other mining properties" for further discussion of atlantic copper and pt smelting. continuous cast copper rod . we manufacture continuous cast copper rod at our facilities in el paso, texas; norwich, connecticut; and miami, arizona, primarily using copper cathode produced at our north america copper mines. copper sales north america . the majority of the copper produced at our north america copper mines and refined in our el paso, texas, refinery is consumed at our rod plants. the remainder of our north america copper production is sold in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate under u.s. dollar-denominated annual contracts. cathode and rod contract prices are generally based on the prevailing commodity exchange inc. (comex - a division of nymex) monthly average spot price for the month of shipment and include a premium. generally, copper rod is sold to wire and cable manufacturers, while cathode is sold to rod, brass or tube fabricators. during 2015 , 15 percent of our north america mines' copper sales volumes were shipped to atlantic copper in the form of copper concentrate. 5 table of contents south america . production from our south america mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under u.s. dollar-denominated, annual and multi-year contracts. during 2015, our south america mines sold half of their copper production in concentrate and half as cathode. substantially all of south america's copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices. revenues from south america's concentrate sales are recorded net of treatment and refining charges ( i.e., fees paid to smelters and refiners that are generally negotiated annually). in addition, because a portion of the metals contained in copper concentrate is unrecoverable from the smelting process, revenues from south america's concentrate sales are also recorded net of allowances for unrecoverable metals, which are a negotiated term of the contracts and vary by customer. indonesia . pt-fi sells its production in the form of copper concentrate, which contains significant quantities of gold and silver, under u.s. dollar-denominated, long-term contracts. pt-fi also sells a small amount of copper concentrate in the spot market. following is a summary of pt-fi's aggregate percentage concentrate sales to third parties, pt smelting and atlantic copper for the years ended december 31: 2015 2014 2013 third parties 61 % 36 % 50 % pt smelting 37 58 41 atlantic copper 2 6 9 100 % 100 % 100 % substantially all of pt-fi's concentrate sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices. revenues from pt-fi's concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties, export duties, treatment charges and allowances for unrecoverable metals. africa . tfm sells its production in the form of copper cathode under u.s. dollar-denominated contracts. substantially all of tfm's cathode sales provide final copper pricing in the month after the shipment date based on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices. revenues from tfm's cathode sales are recorded net of royalties and also include adjustments for point-of-sale transportation costs that are negotiated in customer contracts. gold products and sales we produce gold mostly from the grasberg minerals district. gold is primarily sold as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes, which are a product of the smelting and refining process at atlantic copper. gold generally is priced at the average london price for a specified month near the month of shipment. revenues from gold sold as a component of our copper concentrate are recorded net of treatment and refining charges. revenues from gold sold in slimes are recorded net of refining charges. molybdenum products and sales we are the world's largest producer of molybdenum and molybdenum-based chemicals. in addition to production from the henderson and climax molybdenum mines, we produce molybdenum concentrate at certain of the north america copper mines and the cerro verde copper mine in peru. the majority of our molybdenum concentrate is processed in our own conversion facilities. during 2015, our molybdenum sales were generally priced based on the average metals week price for the month prior to the month of shipment. we have incorporated changes in the commercial pricing structure for our chemicals products to promote continuation of chemical-grade production. cobalt and silver products and sales we produce cobalt hydroxide at the tenke minerals district. cobalt hydroxide is priced at a discount to the average monthly low price as published by metal bulletin or using lme-based pricing for a specified month near the month of shipment. we also produce silver as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes. silver generally is priced at the average london price for a specified month near the month of shipment. oil and gas products and sales we produce and sell oil and gas in the u.s. our oil production is primarily sold under contracts with prices based upon regional benchmarks, and approximately 30 percent of our gas sales is priced monthly using industry-recognized, published index pricing, and the remainder is priced daily on the spot market. 6 table of contents approximately 70 percent of our california production is attributable to heavy crude oil, which is primarily sold under a long-term contract with prices based upon regional benchmarks. in the gom, our share of oil and gas production is sold under a series of contracts pursuant to which crude oil is sold directly to refineries in the gulf coast regions of texas and louisiana at prices based on widely used industry benchmarks. labor matters at december 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 34,500 people (12,400 in the u.s., 12,100 in indonesia, 5,200 in south america, 3,400 in africa, and 1,400 in europe and other locations), and also had contractors with personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 20,600 at the grasberg minerals district, 6,300 at our south america mining operations, 6,000 at the tenke minerals district, 4,100 in the u.s., and 500 in europe and other locations. the number of employees represented by unions at december 31, 2015, and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements are listed below. location number of unions number of union- represented employees expiration date pt-fi indonesia 2 9,058 september 2017 tfm drc 11 3,326 n/a a cerro verde peru 3 2,735 august 2018 el abra chile 2 612 april 2016 b atlantic copper spain 2 423 december 2015 c kokkola - finland 3 414 november 2016 rotterdam the netherlands 2 60 march 2015 c stowmarket united kingdom 1 40 may 2017 bayway new jersey 1 36 april 2016 a. the collective labor agreement (cla) between tfm and its workers' unions has no expiration date, but can be amended at any time in accordance with an established process. in september 2012, tfm negotiated a four-year salary scale with union-represented employees. b. in february 2016, el abra and one of its workers' unions (representing approximately one-third of el abra's union-represented employees) signed a new four-year cla agreement, which expires april 2020. c. the cla between atlantic copper and its workers' unions expired in december 2015, and the cla between rotterdam and its workers' unions expired in march 2015; new agreements are currently being negotiated. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further information on labor matters. environmental and reclamation matters the cost of complying with environmental laws is fundamental to and a substantial cost of our business. for information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to item 1a. risk factors and notes 1 and 12 . competition the top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately half of total worldwide mined copper production. we currently rank second among those producers, with approximately eight percent of estimated total worldwide mined copper production. our competitive position is based on the size, quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. we have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies, and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. the metals markets are cyclical, and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce, and to manage our costs. within the oil and gas industry, our competitors include national and international oil companies, major integrated oil and gas companies, numerous independent oil and gas companies and others. there is substantial competition in the oil and gas industry. our ability to identify and successfully develop additional prospects and to discover oil and 7 table of contents gas reserves in the future will depend on capital availability and our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties, consummate transactions and manage our operations in a cost-efficient and effective manner in a highly competitive environment. mining operations revised operating plans during 2015, in response to weak market conditions, we took actions to enhance our financial position, including significant reductions in capital spending, production curtailments at certain north and south america mines (which resulted in aggregate annual reductions of 350 million pounds of copper and 34 million pounds of molybdenum) and actions to reduce operating, exploration and administrative costs. we continue to evaluate our mining operating plans and additional adjustments may be made as market conditions warrant. revised operating plans for the north america copper mines incorporate reductions in mining rates to reduce operating and capital costs, including the suspension of mining operations at the miami mine, the suspension of production at the sierrita mine, a 50 percent reduction in mining rates at the tyrone mine and adjustments to mining rates at other north america mines. the revised plans at each of the operations also incorporated the impacts of lower energy, acid and other consumables, reduced labor costs and a significant reduction in capital spending plans. the revised operating plan for our henderson molybdenum mine incorporates lower operating rates, resulting in an approximate 65 percent reduction in annual production volumes. we have also incorporated changes in the commercial pricing structure for our chemical products to promote continuation of chemical-grade production. revised operating plans for the south america mines principally reflect adjustments at el abra to reduce mining and stacking rates by approximately 50 percent to achieve lower operating and labor costs, defer capital expenditures and extend the life of the existing operation. the revised operating plan for pt-fi incorporates improved operational efficiencies, reductions in input costs, supplies and contractor costs, and a deferral of 15 percent of capital expenditures that had been planned for 2016. the revised operating plan for the tenke mine incorporates a 50 percent reduction in capital spending that had been planned for 2016 and various initiatives to reduce operating, administrative and exploration costs. following are maps and descriptions of our mining operations in north america (including both copper and molybdenum operations), south america, indonesia and africa. north america in the u.s., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, sx/ew facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is generally owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. certain portions of our bagdad, sierrita, miami, chino, tyrone, henderson and climax operations are located on government-owned land and are operated under a mine plan of operations or other use permit. various federal and state permits or leases on government land are held for purposes incidental to mine operations. 8 table of contents morenci we own an 85 percent undivided interest in morenci, with the remaining 15 percent owned by sumitomo metal mining arizona, inc. each partner takes in kind its share of morenci's production. as further discussed in note 18 , we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell a 13 percent undivided interest in morenci. following completion of the transaction, we will own a 72 percent undivided interest in morenci. morenci is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. morenci is located in greenlee county, arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of safford on u.s. highway 191. the site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur. the morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide. the morenci operation consists of two concentrators capable of milling 115,000 metric tons of ore per day, which produce copper and molybdenum concentrate; a 68,000 metric ton-per-day, crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a low-grade run-of-mine (rom) leaching system; four sx plants; and three ew tank houses that produce copper cathode. total ew tank house capacity is approximately 900 million pounds of copper per year. during second-quarter 2015, morenci's concentrate leach, direct-electrowinning facility (which was placed on care-and-maintenance status in early 2009) resumed operation. morenci's available mining fleet consists of one hundred and eleven 236-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 12 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 57 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 815,000 metric tons of material per day. the morenci mill expansion project, which commenced operations in may 2014, successfully achieved full rates in second-quarter 2015. the project expanded mill capacity from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day, which results in incremental annual production of approximately 225 million pounds of copper and an improvement in morenci's cost structure. over the next five years, morenci's copper production, including our joint venture partner share, is expected to average approximately one billion pounds per year. morenci's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 1.06 billion pounds of copper and 8 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 , 812 million pounds of copper and less than 1 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 , and 664 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 . morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 840 meters above sea level. the morenci operation encompasses approximately 68,250 acres, comprising 51,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 14,050 acres of unpatented mining claims and 3,050 acres of land held by state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-way. the morenci operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility in deming, new mexico. although we believe the morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water 9 table of contents supply for the morenci operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. bagdad our wholly owned bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in yavapai county in west-central arizona. it is approximately 60 miles west of prescott and 100 miles northwest of phoenix. the property can be reached by arizona highway 96, which ends at the town of bagdad. the closest railroad is at hillside, arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on arizona highway 96. the open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings. the bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite. the bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, an sx/ew plant that can produce up to 32 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure-leach plant to process molybdenum concentrate. the available mining fleet consists of thirty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 250,000 metric tons of material per day. bagdad's production totaled 210 million pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 , 237 million pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 , and 216 million pounds of copper and 8 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 . bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 310 meters above sea level. the bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,750 acres, comprising 21,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 600 acres of unpatented mining claims. bagdad receives electrical power from arizona public service company. we believe the bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations. 10 table of contents safford our wholly owned safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in graham county, arizona, approximately 8 miles north of the town of safford and 170 miles east of phoenix. the site is accessible by paved county road off u.s. highway 70. the safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite. the property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathode. the operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. the crushed ore is delivered to leach pads by a series of overland and portable conveyors. leach solutions feed a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. a sulfur burner plant is also in operation at safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in sx/ew operations. the available mining fleet consists of sixteen 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 225,000 metric tons of material per day. safford's copper production totaled 202 million pounds in 2015 , 139 million pounds in 2014 and 146 million pounds in 2013 . safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. the safford operation encompasses approximately 25,000 acres, comprising 21,000 acres of patented lands, 3,950 acres of unpatented lands and 50 acres of land held by federal permit. the safford operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility. although we believe the safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the safford operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 11 table of contents sierrita our wholly owned sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in pima county, arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of tucson and 7 miles west of the town of green valley and interstate highway 19. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. the sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate. sierrita also produces copper from a rom oxide-leaching system. cathode copper is plated at the twin buttes ew facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. the sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. the molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. the available mining fleet consists of twenty-five 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day. in response to low copper and molybdenum prices, during december 2015, we announced plans to suspend production at the sierrita mine. the plan consists of putting the mine and concentrator operations on care-and-maintenance status and producing copper through the oxide-leaching system. additionally, sierrita's molybdenum processing facility will continue to process material from our other mines. sierrita's production totaled 189 million pounds of copper and 21 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 , 195 million pounds of copper and 24 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 , and 171 million pounds of copper and 20 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 . sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. the sierrita operation, including the adjacent twin buttes site (refer to "smelting facilities and other mining properties" for further discussion), encompasses approximately 37,650 acres, comprising 13,300 acres of patented mining claims and 24,350 acres of split-estate lands. sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the tucson electric power company. although we believe the sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the sierrita operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 12 table of contents miami our wholly owned miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in gila county, arizona, approximately 90 miles east of phoenix and 6 miles west of the city of globe on u.s. highway 60. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. since about 1915, the miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. as a result of current economic conditions, we have revised operating plans to suspend mining operations at the miami mine and produce copper through leaching material already placed on stockpiles. the design capacity of the sx/ew plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. miami's copper production totaled 43 million pounds in 2015 , 57 million pounds in 2014 and 61 million pounds in 2013 . miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom will have an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. the miami operation encompasses approximately 9,100 acres, comprising 8,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 350 acres of unpatented mining claims. miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the salt river project and natural gas through long-term contracts with el paso natural gas as the transporter. although we believe the miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the miami operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 13 table of contents chino and tyrone chino our wholly owned chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in grant county, new mexico, approximately 15 miles east of the town of silver city off of state highway 180. the mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. chino has been in operation since 1910. the chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. there is leachable oxide, secondary sulfide and millable primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides. the chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, and a 150 million pound-per-year sx/ew plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by rom leaching. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 42 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 235,000 metric tons of material per day. chino's production totaled 314 million pounds of copper in 2015 , 250 million pounds of copper and less than 1 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 , and 171 million pounds of copper and 2 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 . chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,500 meters above sea level. the chino operation encompasses approximately 118,600 acres, comprising 113,200 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 5,400 acres of unpatented mining claims. chino receives power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations. tyrone our wholly owned tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. it is located in grant county, new mexico, approximately 10 miles south of silver city, new mexico, along state highway 90. the site is accessible by paved road and by rail. the tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite, with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla. copper processing facilities consist of a sx/ew operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathode per year. the available mining fleet consists of seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by one shovel with a bucket size of 47 cubic meters, which is capable of moving an average of 49,000 metric tons of material per day. the revised operating plans include a 50 percent reduction in mining rates at the tyrone mine. tyrone's copper production totaled 84 million pounds in 2015 , 94 million pounds in 2014 and 96 million pounds in 2013 . 14 table of contents tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. the tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 16,450 acres of unpatented mining claims. tyrone receives electrical power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe the tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. henderson and climax henderson our wholly owned henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of denver, colorado, off u.s. highway 40. nearby communities include the towns of empire, georgetown and idaho springs. the henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from colorado state highway 9. the henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the continental divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. the tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill. the henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 40 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our fort madison, iowa, processing facility. the available underground mining equipment fleet consists of fifteen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (lhd) units and seven 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles. the revised operating plans for the henderson mine incorporate an approximate 65 percent reduction in operating rates. henderson's molybdenum production totaled 25 million pounds in 2015 , and 30 million pounds in both 2014 and 2013 . the henderson mine is located in a mountainous region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. the main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,900 acres, comprising 11,850 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and a 50-acre easement with the u.s. forest service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor. henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. climax our wholly owned climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of leadville, colorado, off colorado state highway 91 at the top of fremont pass. the mine is accessible by paved roads . 15 table of contents the climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the climax open-pit mine includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. climax has the capacity to produce approximately 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the available mining fleet consists of nine 177-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two hydraulic shovels with bucket sizes of 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 90,000 metric tons of material per day. molybdenum production from climax totaled 23 million pounds in 2015 , 21 million pounds in 2014 and 19 million pounds in 2013 . the climax mine is located in a mountainous region. the highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the operations encompass approximately 14,350 acres, consisting primarily of patented mining claims and other fee lands. climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with andarko energy and bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. south america at our operations in south america, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. the claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements. cerro verde we have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in cerro verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by smm cerro verde netherlands b.v. (21.0 percent), compa ia de minas buenaventura s.a.a. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the lima stock exchange (5.86 percent). cerro verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of arequipa, peru. the site is accessible by paved highway. a majority of cerro verde's copper cathode production is sold locally, and the remaining copper cathode and concentrate production are transported approximately 70 miles by truck and by rail to the port of matarani for shipment to international markets. the cerro verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper pitch. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. cerro verde's operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 360,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator and sx/ew leaching facilities. leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility 16 table of contents and a rom leach system. this sx/ew leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. the cerro verde expansion project commenced operations in september 2015 and is currently operating at full rates. cerro verde's expanded operations will benefit from its large-scale, long-lived reserves and cost efficiencies. the project expanded the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and is expected to provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum. the available fleet consists of six 290-metric ton haul trucks and eighty-two 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by nine electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 57 cubic meters and two hydraulic shovels with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters. this fleet is capable of moving an average of approximately 725,000 metric tons of material per day. cerro verde's production totaled 545 million pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 , 500 million pounds of copper and 11 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 , and 558 million pounds of copper and 13 million pounds of molybdenum in 2013 . cerro verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 2,750 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,570 meters above sea level. the peruvian general mining law and cerro verde's mining stability agreement grants the surface rights of mining concessions located on government land. additional government land if obtained prior to 1997, must be leased or purchased. cerro verde has a mining concession covering approximately 157,000 acres, including 14,500 acres rented from the regional government of arequipa, plus 71 acres of owned property, and 80 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area. cerro verde receives electrical power under long-term contracts with kallpa generaci n sa and electroperu to supply energy to the expanded facilities. water for our cerro verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. in 2015, cerro verde completed the construction of a wastewater treatment plant that intercepts raw sewage that would otherwise be discharged into the rio chile and processes it for both use at the cerro verde mine and for recharge of treated water into the rio chile. prior to construction of the wastewater treatment plant, cerro verde reached agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, the local water utility company, servicio de agua potable y alcantarillado de arequipa s.a. (sedapar), and other local institutions to allow it to reuse an annual average of one cubic meter per second of the treated water to support the recently completed concentrator expansion. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. 17 table of contents el abra we own a 51 percent interest in el abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise corporaci n nacional del cobre de chile (codelco). el abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of calama in chile's el loa province, region ii. the site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. the el abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. the predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. there is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization as chalcocite. the oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. there are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite. the el abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized rom leaching operation. the available fleet consists of forty-one 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 34 to 63 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 214,000 metric tons of material per day. the revised operating plans for el abra reduce mining and stacking rates by approximately 50 percent to achieve lower operating and labor costs, defer capital expenditures and extend the life of the existing operations. el abra's copper production totaled 324 million pounds in 2015 , 367 million pounds in 2014 and 343 million pounds in 2013 . exploration results in recent years at el abra indicate a significant sulfide resource, which could potentially support a major mill project. future investments will be dependent on technical studies, economic factors and global copper market conditions. el abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,430 meters above sea level. el abra controls a total of approximately 151,300 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. in addition, el abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the salar de ascot n aquifer. el abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with e-cl. water for our el abra processing operations comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. we believe el abra has sufficient water rights and regulatory approvals to support current operations. el abra is conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the pacific ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production through ore mill processing. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors. 18 table of contents indonesia ownership . pt-fi is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the republic of indonesia. we directly own 81.28 percent of the outstanding common stock of pt-fi and indirectly own 9.36 percent through our wholly owned subsidiary, pt indocopper investama; the indonesian government owns the remaining 9.36 percent. pt-fi has established an unincorporated joint venture with rio tinto, under which rio tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021 in block a of pt-fi's contract of work (cow), and after 2021, a 40 percent interest in all production from block a. refer to note 3 for further discussion of the joint venture agreement. contract of work . pt-fi conducts its current exploration and mining operations in indonesia through a cow with the indonesian government. the cow governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 foreign capital investment law, which expresses indonesia's foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. specifically, the cow provides that the indonesian government will not nationalize or expropriate pt-fi's mining operations. any disputes regarding the provisions of the cow are subject to international arbitration; however, we have not had an arbitration during the more than 40 years we have operated in indonesia. pt-fi's original cow was entered into in 1967 and was replaced by the current cow in 1991. the initial term of the current cow expires in 2021, but the cow explicitly provides that it can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. the cow allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre block a area, which is where all of pt-fi's proven and probable mineral reserves and all its current mining operations are located. under the cow, pt-fi also conducts exploration activities in the block b area currently covering 502,000 acres. ongoing negotiations for an amended cow, discussed below and in note 13 , may result in relinquishments of the block b acreage. under the cow, pt-fi pays royalties on copper, gold and silver in the concentrate it sells (refer to note 13 for further discussion of the royalty rates and the "regulatory matters" discussion below regarding the modifications resulting from the july 2014 memorandum of understanding (mou) entered into with indonesian government). a large part of the mineral royalties under indonesian government regulations is designated to the provinces from which the minerals are extracted. in connection with its fourth concentrator mill expansion completed in 1998, pt-fi agreed to pay the indonesian government additional royalties, which were not required by the cow, to provide further support to the local governments and to the people of the indonesian province of papua. pt-fi's royalties totaled $114 million in 2015 , $115 million in 2014 and $109 million in 2013 . 19 table of contents regulatory matters . in january 2014, the indonesian government published regulations that among other things imposed a progressive export duty on copper concentrate and restricts concentrate exports after january 12, 2017. despite pt-fi's rights under its cow to export concentrate without the payment of duties, pt-fi was unable to obtain administrative approval for exports and operated at approximately half of its capacity from mid-january 2014 through july 2014. in july 2014, pt-fi entered into a mou with the indonesian government. under the mou, pt-fi provided a $115 million assurance bond to support its commitment for smelter development, agreed to increase royalty rates and agreed to pay export duties (which were set at 7.5 percent, declining to 5.0 percent when smelter development progress exceeds 7.5 percent and are eliminated when development progress exceeds 30 percent). the mou also anticipated an amendment of the cow within six months to address other matters; however, no terms of the cow other than those relating to the smelter bond, increased royalties and export duties were changed. in january 2015, the mou was extended to july 25, 2015, and it expired on that date. the increased royalty rates, export duties and smelter assurance bond remain in effect. pt-fi paid export duties totaling $109 million in 2015 and $77 million in 2014 . pt-fi is required to apply for renewal of export permits at six-month intervals. on july 29, 2015, pt-fi's export permit was renewed through january 28, 2016. in connection with the renewal, export duties were reduced to 5.0 percent as a result of smelter development progress. on february 9, 2016, pt-fi's export permit was renewed through august 8, 2016. pt-fi will continue to pay a 5.0 percent export duty on concentrate while it reviews its smelter progress with the indonesian government. pt-fi continues to engage in discussions with the indonesian government regarding its cow and long-term operating rights. in october 2015, the indonesian government provided a letter of assurance to pt-fi indicating that it will approve the extension of pt-fi's operations beyond 2021, and provide the same rights and the same level of legal and fiscal certainty provided under its current cow. in connection with its cow negotiations and subject to concluding the agreement to extend pt-fi's operations beyond 2021 on acceptable terms, pt-fi has agreed to construct new smelter capacity in indonesia and to divest an additional 20.64 percent in pt-fi at fair market value. pt-fi continues to advance plans for the smelter in parallel with completing its cow negotiations. we cannot predict whether pt-fi will be successful in reaching a satisfactory agreement on the terms of its long-term mining rights. if pt-fi is unable to reach agreement with the indonesian government on its long-term rights, we may be required to reduce or defer investments in underground development projects, which could have a material adverse effect on pt-fi's future production and reserves. in addition, pt-fi would intend to pursue any and all claims against the indonesian government for breach of contract through international arbitration. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion of risks associated with operations in indonesia. grasberg minerals district . pt-fi operates in the remote highlands of the sudirman mountain range in the province of papua, indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of new guinea. we and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in block a since 1967. the grasberg minerals district has three operating mines: the grasberg open pit, the deep ore zone (doz) underground mine and the deep mill level zone (dmlz) underground mine. the grasberg minerals district also includes the developed big gossan underground mine where operations are currently suspended and are expected to restart in the first half of 2017. pt-fi also has several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district related to the development of the large-scale, long-lived, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the grasberg open pit. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to produce large-scale quantities of copper and gold following the transition from the grasberg open pit, currently anticipated to occur in late 2017. refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of these projects. pt-fi's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 752 million pounds of copper and 1.23 million ounces of gold in 2015 , 651 million pounds of copper and 1.13 million ounces of gold in 2014 and 928 million pounds of copper and 1.14 million ounces of gold in 2013 . our principal source of power for all our indonesian operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. a combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. 20 table of contents although we typically have sufficient water for our indonesian operations, lower rainfall resulting from el ni o weather conditions in the second half of 2015 has impacted operations, and may continue to impact operations in 2016. our indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. grasberg open pit pt-fi began open-pit mining of the grasberg ore body in 1990. mining operations are expected to continue through the end of 2017, and production from the ore stockpiles, which are located outside of the pit limits, are expected to continue until early 2019. production in the open pit is currently at the 3,160- to 3,715-meter elevation level and totaled 42 million metric tons of ore in 2015 , which provided 70 percent of pt-fi's 2015 mill feed. the current open-pit equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. the larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 141 haul trucks with payloads ranging from 218 to 276 metric tons and 16 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 42 cubic meters, which mined an average of 250,400 metric tons of material per day in 2015 , 298,400 metric tons per day in 2014 and 381,000 metric tons per day in 2013 . crushing and conveying systems are integral to the grasberg mine and provide the capacity to transport more than 250,000 metric tons of ore per day. for the year 2015, grasberg's crushing and conveying systems delivered an average of 116,000 metric tons of ore per day to the mill. grasberg's overburden handling system is capable of delivering 175,000 metric tons per day. for the year 2015, the grasberg overburden handling system delivered an average of 43,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. the remaining overburden moved by haul trucks averaged 72,000 metric tons per day in 2015. ore milled from the grasberg open pit averaged 115,900 metric tons of ore per day in 2015 , 69,100 metric tons of ore per day in 2014 and 127,700 metric tons of ore per day in 2013. doz underground mine the doz ore body lies vertically below the now depleted intermediate ore zone. pt-fi began production from the doz ore body in 1989 using open-stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the grasberg open pit. production resumed in september 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level. the doz is a mature block-cave mine that previously operated at 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. current operating rates from the doz underground mine, which range from 35,000 to 65,000 metric tons of ore per day, are driven by the value of the incremental doz ore grade compared to the ore from the grasberg open pit and ore grade material from the development of the dmlz and grasberg block cave underground mines. during 2015, ore milled from the doz underground mine averaged 43,700 metric tons of ore per day. production at the doz underground mine is expected to continue through 2021. the doz mine fleet consists of over 250 pieces of mobile equipment. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 52 lhd units and 21 haul trucks. each production lhd unit typically carries approximately 11 metric tons of ore. using ore passes and chutes, the lhd units transfer ore into 55-metric ton capacity haul trucks. the trucks dump into two gyratory crushers, and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. the success of the development of the doz mine, one of the world's largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of pt-fi's large-scale, underground ore bodies. dmlz underground mine the dmlz ore body lies below the doz underground mine at the 2,590-meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the ertsberg east skarn system and neighboring ertsberg porphyry. pt-fi began production from the dmlz ore body in september 2015 using the block-cave method. ore milled from the dmlz underground mine averaged 2,900 metric tons of ore per day for the year 2015 ( 3,500 metric tons per day in fourth-quarter 2015). targeted production rates once the dmlz underground mine reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2021. production at the dmlz underground mine is expected to continue through 2040. the dmlz mine fleet consists of over 277 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 33 lhd units and 19 haul trucks used in production and development activities. 21 table of contents big gossan underground mine production from the big gossan ore body, which is currently suspended, is expected to restart in the first half of 2017 and ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2019. the big gossan mine lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. it is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. the mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. the crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. the belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. the big gossan mine fleet consists of over 135 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes five lhd units and three haul trucks used in development and production activities. description of ore bodies . our indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the grasberg monzodiorite and the ertsberg diorite. the host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the sudirman range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. the igneous-hosted ore bodies (the grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the doz block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. the sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the doz and all of the big gossan) occur as magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. the copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district's ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. these gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. the following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported indonesia ore bodies. 22 table of contents the following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported indonesia ore bodies and their locations. africa tfm is organized under the laws of the drc. we own an effective 56 percent interest in tfm, with the remaining ownership interests held by lundin mining corporation (lundin) (an effective 24 percent interest) and la g n rale des carri res et des mines (g camines), which is wholly owned by the drc government (a 20 percent non-dilutable interest). tfm is entitled to mine in the drc under an amended and restated mining convention (armc) with the drc government. the original mining convention entered into in 1996 was replaced with the armc in 2005 and was further amended in 2010 (approved in 2011). the current armc will remain in effect for as long as the tenke concessions are exploitable. tfm pays a royalty of two percent of net revenues under the armc, which totaled $25 million in 2015 and $29 million in both 2014 and 2013 . the tenke minerals district is located in the southeast region of the drc approximately 110 miles northwest of lubumbashi and is accessible by paved roads and by rail. the deposits are sediment-hosted copper and cobalt 23 table of contents deposits with oxide, mixed oxide-sulfide and sulfide mineralization. the dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite. important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite. the tenke minerals district contains an open-pit copper and cobalt mining complex, which commenced initial copper production in march 2009. tfm completed its second phase expansion project in early 2013, which included increasing mine, mill and processing capacity. construction of a second sulphuric acid plant is under way, with completion expected in the first half of 2016. we continue to engage in exploration activities and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective minerals district at tenke. future development and expansion opportunities are being deferred pending improved market conditions. the current equipment fleet includes three 17-cubic meter mass excavators, five 12-cubic meter front-end loaders, thirteen 7-cubic meter front-end loaders, thirty-six 91-metric ton haul trucks and six 80-metric ton haul trucks. copper and cobalt are recovered through an agitation-leach plant. production from the tenke minerals district totaled 449 million pounds of copper and 35 million pounds of cobalt in 2015 , 447 million pounds of copper and 29 million pounds of cobalt in 2014 , and 462 million pounds of copper and 28 million pounds of cobalt in 2013 . the tenke minerals district is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated by its higher altitudes. weather in this region is characterized by a dry season and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,520 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,110 meters above sea level. the tenke deposits are covered by six exploitation permits totaling approximately 394,450 acres. tfm has long-term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with la soci t nationale d'electricit , the state-owned electric utility company serving the region. the results of a recent water exploration program, as well as the regional geological and hydro-geological conditions, indicate that adequate water is available during the expected life of the operation. smelting facilities and other mining properties atlantic copper . our wholly owned atlantic copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the huelva, spain, port authorities, which are scheduled to expire in 2027. the design capacity of the smelter is approximately 300,000 metric tons of copper per year, and the refinery has a capacity of 285,000 metric tons of copper per year. during 2015 , atlantic copper treated 1.05 million metric tons of concentrate and scrap, and produced 293,100 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 284,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery. following is a summary of atlantic copper's concentrate purchases from our copper mining operations and third parties for the years ended december 31: 2015 2014 2013 north america copper mines 23 % 21 % 13 % south america mining 3 a 21 32 indonesia mining 3 8 16 third parties 71 50 39 100 % 100 % 100 % a. the decrease in purchases from the south america mines, compared to the years 2014 and 2013, primarily reflects the impact of the november 2014 sale of the candelaria and ojos del salado mines. atlantic copper's major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with shorter-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. atlantic copper completed a 68-day major maintenance turnaround in 2013 and the next short-term maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2017. pt smelting . pt-fi's cow required us to construct, or cause to be constructed, a smelter in indonesia if we and the indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. in 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of pt smelting, an indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia. pt smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. pt-fi owns 25 percent of pt smelting, with the remainder owned by mitsubishi 24 table of contents materials corporation (60.5 percent), mitsubishi corporation unimetals ltd. (9.5 percent) and jx nippon mining &amp; metals corporation (5 percent). pt-fi's contract with pt smelting requires pt-fi to supply 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (at market rates subject to a minimum or maximum rate) necessary for pt smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. pt-fi may also sell copper concentrate to pt smelting at market rates for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. during 2015 , pt smelting treated 744,800 metric tons of concentrate and produced 199,700 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 198,400 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery. pt smelting resumed operations in september 2015, following a temporary suspension in july 2015, and operated at approximately 80 percent capacity until november 2015 when required repairs of an acid plant cooling tower that was damaged during the suspension were completed. pt smelting's maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. pt smelting completed a 23-day maintenance turnaround during 2014, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for third-quarter 2016. miami smelter . we own and operate a smelter at our miami mining operation in arizona. the smelter has been operating for approximately 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with air quality requirements. the miami smelter is installing emission control equipment that will allow it to operate in compliance with recently adopted enhanced air quality standards (refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion). the miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our north america copper mines. concentrate processed through the smelter totaled 686,700 metric tons in 2015 . in addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrate, the miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our north america leaching operations (refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion). major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) typically occur approximately every 14 months for the miami smelter, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. the miami smelter completed a major maintenance turnaround in third-quarter 2015, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for fourth-quarter 2016. rod &amp; refining operations . our rod &amp; refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in north america, including a refinery in el paso, texas; rod mills in el paso, texas, norwich, connecticut, and miami, arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in bayway, new jersey. we refine our copper anode production from our miami smelter at our el paso refinery. the el paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at our miami smelter. our el paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. molybdenum conversion facilities . we process molybdenum concentrate at our conversion plants in the u.s. and europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates and molybdenum disulfide. we operate molybdenum roasters in sierrita, arizona; fort madison, iowa; and rotterdam, the netherlands, and we operate a molybdenum pressure-leach plant in bagdad, arizona. we also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in stowmarket, united kingdom. freeport cobalt . in march 2013, we acquired a cobalt chemical refinery in kokkola, finland, and the related sales and marketing business. the acquisition provided direct end-market access for the cobalt hydroxide production at the tenke minerals district. the joint venture operates under the name freeport cobalt, and we are the operator with an effective 56 percent ownership interest. the remaining effective ownership interest is held by our partners in tfm, including 24 percent by lundin and 20 percent by g camines. the kokkola refinery has an annual refining capacity of approximately 15,000 metric tons of cobalt, sufficient to refine the majority of the cobalt we produce in the tenke minerals district. other north america copper mines . we also have five non-operating copper mines in north america ajo, bisbee, twin buttes and tohono in arizona, and cobre in new mexico that have been on care-and-maintenance status for 25 table of contents several years and would require new or updated environmental studies, new permits, and additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status. mining development projects and exploration we have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. our near-term major development projects include the underground development activities in grasberg (refer to md&amp;a for further discussion). considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. we continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our mineral reserves. capital expenditures for mining operations totaled $3.3 billion (including $2.4 billion for major projects) in 2015 , $4.0 billion (including $2.9 billion for major projects) in 2014 and $3.8 billion (including $2.3 billion for major projects) in 2013 . capital expenditures for major projects during the three years ended december 31, 2015, were primarily associated with the expansion projects at morenci and cerro verde, and underground development activities at grasberg. capital expenditures for major projects at mining operations in the year 2016 are expected to approximate $1.4 billion and are primarily associated with underground development activities at grasberg and remaining costs for the cerro verde expansion. pt-fi is advancing plans for the construction of new smelter capacity in indonesia in parallel with completing negotiations on its cow and long-term operating rights. pt-fi has identified sites, and project definition studies and early engineering are being advanced. we are also engaged in discussions with potential partners for the project. the preliminary scope of the facilities involves smelting and refining capacity of one to two million metric tons per year of copper concentrate from the grasberg mine. we also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the grasberg minerals district for the kucing liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. we expect to mine the kucing liar ore body using the block-cave method; aggregate capital cost estimates for development of the kucing liar ore body are projected to approximate $2.4 billion (which are expected to be made between 2019 and 2031). additionally, our current mine development plans include approximately $5 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once the grasberg open-pit operations cease. we expect substantially all of these expenditures to be m ade between 2018 and 2035. our mining exploration activities are generally near our existing mines, with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves and resources to support development of additional future production capacity in the large minerals districts where we currently operate. exploration results continue to indicate opportunities for what we believe could be significant future potential reserve additions in north and south america, and in the tenke minerals district. the drilling data in north america also indicates the potential for significantly expanded sulfide production. drilling results and exploration modeling provide a long-term pipeline for future growth in reserves and production capacity in established minerals districts. exploration spending associated with mining operations totaled $102 million in 2015, $96 million in 2014 and $182 million in 2013. exploration spending continues to be reduced from historical levels as a result of market conditions and is expected to approximate $52 million for the year 2016. sources and availability of energy, natural resources and raw materials our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented 17 percent of our 2015 consolidated copper production costs and included purchases of approximately 250 million gallons of diesel fuel; 7,600 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america, south america and africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 800 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 million british thermal units (mmbtu) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. based on current cost estimates, we estimate energy will approximate 20 percent of our consolidated copper production costs for 2016. our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. for a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. 26 table of contents sulphuric acid is used in the sx/ew process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulfur burners at the safford and tenke mines. sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties. as further discussed in item 1a. "risk factors," if production were to be curtailed at the miami smelter, we would be required to export concentrate rather than process it ourselves and to purchase sulphuric acid from third parties, thereby increasing our operating costs. community and human rights we have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. we continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs basic education programs public health programs, including malaria control and hiv agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs cultural promotion and preservation programs clean water and sanitation projects community infrastructure development charitable donations in december 2000, we endorsed the joint u.s. state department-british foreign office voluntary principles on human rights and security (voluntary principles). we participated in developing these voluntary principles with other major natural resource companies and international human rights organizations and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. we completed a corporate level human rights impact assessment in 2014, the results of which were used to evaluate our human rights program, including a review of our human rights policy. in february 2015, we updated our human rights policy to, among other things, reflect our commitment to integrating the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights into our human rights program. we also participate in a multi-industry human rights working group to gain insight from peer companies and are integrating human rights due diligence into our business practices. we believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. as part of our ongoing, annual commitment to sustainable community development, we have made significant investments in social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations. over the last five years, these investments have averaged $180 million per year. nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. south america . cerro verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, cerro verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve arequipa. in addition, an agreement was reached with the peruvian government for development of a water storage and distribution network, which was financed by the cerro verde civil association (the association). the association manages contributions made by cerro verde for projects that focus on education, training, health, cultural preservation and basic infrastructure. cerro verde reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, sedapar and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa, which is being used to supplement existing water supplies to support cerro verde's concentrator expansion. treating this water will also improve the regional water quality, enhance agriculture products grown in the area and reduce waterborne illnesses. in addition to these projects, cerro verde annually makes significant community development investments in the arequipa region. indonesia . in 1996, pt-fi established the freeport partnership fund for community development (the partnership fund) through which pt-fi has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development of the area. pt-fi has 27 table of contents committed through 2016 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the partnership fund. pt-fi recognized $27 million in 2015 , $31 million in 2014 and $41 million in 2013 for this commitment. the amungme and kamoro community development organization ( lembaga pengembangan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro or lpmak) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the partnership fund. lpmak is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local amungme and kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of pt-fi on each board. the amungme and kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. in addition to the partnership fund, pt-fi annually makes significant investments in public health, education, community infrastructure and economic development. security matters . consistent with our cow in indonesia and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, pt-fi maintains its own internal security department. both employees and contractors are unarmed and perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights training annually. pt-fi's share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $58 million for 2015 , $57 million for 2014 and $51 million for 2013 . pt-fi, and all businesses and residents of indonesia, rely on the indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesian government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. this designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. the indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. from the outset of pt-fi's operations, the indonesian government has looked to pt-fi to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in papua. pt-fi's financial support for the indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol pt-fi's roads and secure its operating area. in addition, the provision of such support is consistent with pt-fi's obligations under the cow, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights. pt-fi's share of support costs for the government-provided security was $21 million in 2015 , $27 million in 2014 and $25 million in 2013 . this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion of security risks in indonesia. africa . tfm has committed to assist the communities living within its concession area in the southeast region of the drc. initiatives include an integrated malaria control program; construction, renovation and building of local health facilities; construction and renovation of local schools; installation of over 115 clean water wells in rural villages as well as construction of urban water distribution systems; and economic development programs supporting development and training of local entrepreneurs, contractors and farmers. we have also made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a portion of a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems. through the armc, tfm also contributes 0.3 percent of its net sales revenue to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services including health, education and agriculture. the tfm social community fund is managed by a board of directors comprised of two local community representatives, one representative nominated by the provincial governor, four tfm representatives and an observer representative from gecamines. a stakeholder forum comprised of 40 community leaders provides for increased community participation and input regarding project priorities, community needs, and 28 table of contents transparency of fund management. the tfm social community fund contributions totaled $4 million in each of the years in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . security matters . tfm maintains an unarmed internal security department composed of both employees and contractors. the national government also has assigned mines police to the tfm concession areas. the mines police are a division of the congolese national police and are responsible for maintaining security in mining concessions throughout the drc. tfm provides food, housing, medical services, supervised transportation, non-lethal equipment and monetary allowances as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession areas. the total cost to tfm for this support, including in-kind support, approximated $1 million in 2015 , $2 million in 2014 and $1 million in 2013 . tfm also participates in monthly security coordination meetings with host country security personnel, other mining companies, non-governmental organizations and representatives from the united nations to discuss security issues and concerns. as an outcome of the coordination meetings, tfm has partnered with monusco (united nations stabilization mission in the drc) to conduct human rights training in the tfm concessions for host government security personnel, local representatives and tfm security employees. 29 table of contents mining production data years ended december 31, (fcx's net interest in %) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 copper (millions of recoverable pounds) north america morenci (85%) a 902 691 564 537 522 bagdad (100%) 210 237 216 197 194 safford (100%) 202 139 146 175 151 sierrita (100%) 189 195 171 157 177 miami (100%) 43 57 61 66 66 chino (100%) 314 250 171 144 69 tyrone (100%) 84 94 96 83 76 other (100%) 3 7 6 4 3 total north america 1,947 1,670 1,431 1,363 1,258 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 545 500 558 595 647 el abra (51%) 324 367 343 338 274 candelaria/ojos del salado (80%) b 284 422 324 385 total south america 869 1,151 1,323 1,257 1,306 indonesia grasberg (90.64%) c 752 636 915 695 846 africa tenke fungurume (56%) d 449 447 462 348 281 consolidated 4,017 3,904 4,131 3,663 3,691 less noncontrolling interests 680 725 801 723 710 net 3,337 3,179 3,330 2,940 2,981 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) north america (100%) a 25 12 7 13 10 south america (80%) b 72 101 83 101 indonesia (90.64%) c 1,232 1,130 1,142 862 1,272 consolidated 1,257 1,214 1,250 958 1,383 less noncontrolling interests 115 120 127 98 139 net 1,142 1,094 1,123 860 1,244 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) henderson (100%) 25 30 30 34 38 climax (100%) e 23 21 19 7 north america copper mines (100%) a 37 33 32 36 35 cerro verde (53.56%) 7 11 13 8 10 consolidated 92 95 94 85 83 less noncontrolling interest 3 5 6 4 5 net 89 90 88 81 78 cobalt (millions of contained pounds) consolidated - tenke fungurume (56%) d 35 29 28 26 25 less noncontrolling interests 15 13 12 11 11 net 20 16 16 15 14 a. amounts are net of morenci's 15 percent joint venture partner interest. as further discussed in note 18 , we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell a 13 percent undivided interest in morenci; the transaction is expected to close in mid-2016. b. on november 3, 2014, we completed the sale of our 80 percent interests in the candelaria and ojos del salado mines. c. amounts are net of grasberg's joint venture partner interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement (refer to note 3). under the joint venture agreement, pt-fi's share of copper production was 100 percent in 2015 , 98 percent in 2014 , 99 percent in 2013 , 100 percent in 2012 and 95 percent in 2011; pt-fi's share of gold production was 100 percent in 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012, and 88 percent in 2011. d. effective march 26, 2012, fcx's effective ownership interest in tfm was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. e. the climax molybdenum mine began commercial operations in may 2012. 30 table of contents mining sales data years ended december 31, (fcx's net interest in %) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 copper (millions of recoverable pounds) north america morenci (85%) a 915 680 561 532 521 bagdad (100%) 222 240 212 196 201 safford (100%) 198 142 151 175 147 sierrita (100%) 196 196 170 162 175 miami (100%) 46 60 60 68 59 chino (100%) 319 243 168 132 62 tyrone (100%) 89 96 94 82 79 other (100%) 3 7 6 4 3 total north america 1,988 1,664 1,422 1,351 1,247 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 544 501 560 589 657 el abra (51%) 327 366 341 338 276 candelaria/ojos del salado (80%) b 268 424 318 389 total south america 871 1,135 1,325 1,245 1,322 indonesia grasberg (90.64%) c 744 664 885 716 846 africa tenke fungurume (56%) d 467 425 454 336 283 consolidated sales from mines 4,070 3,888 4,086 3,648 3,698 less noncontrolling interests 688 715 795 717 717 net 3,382 3,173 3,291 2,931 2,981 consolidated sales from mines 4,070 3,888 4,086 3,648 3,698 purchased copper 121 125 223 125 223 total copper sales, including purchases 4,191 4,013 4,309 3,773 3,921 average realized price per pound $ 2.42 $ 3.09 $ 3.30 $ 3.60 $ 3.86 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) north america (100%) a 23 13 6 13 7 south america (80%) b 67 102 82 101 indonesia (90.64%) c 1,224 1,168 1,096 915 1,270 consolidated sales from mines 1,247 1,248 1,204 1,010 1,378 less noncontrolling interests 115 123 123 102 139 net 1,132 1,125 1,081 908 1,239 average realized price per ounce $ 1,129 $ 1,231 $ 1,315 $ 1,665 $ 1,583 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) consolidated sales from mines 89 95 93 83 79 less noncontrolling interests 4 5 5 4 4 net 85 90 88 79 75 average realized price per pound $ 8.70 $ 12.74 $ 11.85 $ 14.26 $ 16.98 cobalt (millions of contained pounds) consolidated - tenke fungurume (56%) d 35 30 25 25 25 less noncontrolling interests 15 13 11 11 10 net 20 17 14 14 15 average realized price per pound $ 8.21 $ 9.66 $ 8.02 $ 7.83 $ 9.99 a. amounts are net of morenci's 15 percent joint venture partner interest. as further discussed in note 18 , we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell a 13 percent undivided interest in morenci; the transaction is expected to close in mid-2016. b. on november 3, 2014, we completed the sale of our 80 percent interests in the candelaria and ojos del salado mines. c. amounts are net of grasberg's joint venture partner interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement (refer to note 3). under the joint venture agreement, pt-fi's share of copper sales was 100 percent in 2015 , 98 percent in 2014 , 99 percent in 2013 , 100 percent in 2012 and 96 percent in 2011; pt-fi's share of gold sales was 100 percent in 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012, and 88 percent in 2011. d. effective march 26, 2012, fcx's effective ownership interest in tfm was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. 31 table of contents mineral reserves recoverable proven and probable reserves have been calculated in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange act of 1934. proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance in other countries. proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. the term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the term proven reserves means reserves for which (i) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (ii) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (iii) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. the term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at december 31, 2015 , were determined using long-term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. for the three-year period ended december 31, 2015 , lme spot copper prices averaged $2.97 per pound, london pm gold prices averaged $1,276 per ounce and the weekly average price for molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $9.45 per pound. the recoverable proven and probable reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. recoverable reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2015 copper a (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) silver b (million ounces) cobalt b (billion pounds) north america 33.5 0.3 2.38 79.3 south america 30.8 0.67 85.2 indonesia c 28.0 26.8 106.7 africa 7.2 0.87 consolidated basis d 99.5 27.1 3.05 271.2 0.87 net equity interest e 79.3 24.6 2.73 221.6 0.49 a. consolidated recoverable copper reserves include 3.8 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 1.0 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (refer to mill and leach stockpiles for further discussion). b. determined using long-term average prices of $15 per ounce for silver and $10 per pound for cobalt. c. recoverable proven and probable reserves from indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 (refer to note 13 for discussion of pt-fi's cow). d. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. refer to notes 3 and 18 for further discussion of our joint ventures. e. net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. 32 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2015 proven reserves probable reserves average ore grade average ore grade processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt million copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % metric tons % g/t % g/t % north america morenci mill 636 0.43 0.02 116 0.40 0.02 crushed leach 313 0.56 72 0.46 rom leach 1,862 0.18 575 0.16 bagdad mill 997 0.34 a 0.02 1.45 152 0.32 a 0.02 1.36 rom leach 78 0.22 26 0.20 safford crushed leach 57 0.44 27 0.42 sierrita mill 2,135 0.24 a 0.03 1.42 184 0.19 a 0.02 1.14 chino mill 93 0.56 0.04 0.01 0.51 56 0.52 0.04 a 0.47 rom leach 73 0.30 15 0.26 tyrone rom leach 13 0.42 a 0.40 henderson mill 65 0.18 16 0.14 climax mill 155 0.16 23 0.08 cobre b mill 16 0.53 a 0.53 rom leach 62 0.31 1 0.40 6,555 1,263 south america cerro verde mill 925 0.39 0.02 1.61 2,778 0.37 0.01 1.53 crushed leach 34 0.51 51 0.41 rom leach 14 0.23 54 0.22 el abra crushed leach 268 0.49 68 0.44 rom leach 47 0.19 16 0.21 1,288 2,967 indonesia dmlz mill 68 0.94 0.77 4.60 392 0.89 0.73 4.36 grasberg open pit mill 50 1.52 2.02 3.93 79 0.80 0.82 2.20 doz mill 39 0.57 0.68 2.42 77 0.55 0.70 2.30 big gossan mill 17 2.39 1.02 15.15 37 2.20 0.98 13.22 grasberg block cave b mill 444 1.20 0.96 3.73 518 0.88 0.62 3.29 kucing liar b mill 144 1.36 1.15 7.59 251 1.21 1.05 6.56 762 1,354 africa tenke fungurume agitation leach 57 3.45 0.39 42 2.85 0.35 total fcx - 100% basis 8,662 5,626 a. grade not shown because of rounding. b. undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. the reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below: g/t grams per metric ton moly molybdenum rom run of mine 33 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2015 (continued) proven and probable average ore grade recoveries a processing million copper gold moly silver cobalt copper gold moly silver cobalt method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % % % north america morenci mill 752 0.42 0.02 81.2 50.4 crushed leach 385 0.54 78.5 rom leach 2,437 0.18 43.3 bagdad mill 1,149 0.34 b 0.02 1.43 86.2 59.1 70.8 49.3 rom leach 104 0.21 24.6 safford crushed leach 84 0.43 63.9 sierrita mill 2,319 0.23 b 0.03 1.40 83.2 59.9 79.9 49.3 chino mill 149 0.55 0.04 0.01 0.50 79.4 77.9 33.7 78.5 rom leach 88 0.29 39.4 tyrone rom leach 13 0.42 68.4 henderson mill 81 0.17 84.3 climax mill 178 0.15 89.7 cobre c mill 16 0.53 80.2 rom leach 63 0.31 49.5 7,818 south america cerro verde mill 3,703 0.37 0.01 1.55 86.3 54.3 44.7 crushed leach 85 0.45 79.9 rom leach 68 0.22 53.5 el abra crushed leach 336 0.48 58.2 rom leach 63 0.20 39.6 4,255 indonesia dmlz mill 460 0.89 0.74 4.39 87.1 79.4 64.9 grasberg open pit mill 129 1.08 1.29 2.87 85.2 82.0 44.2 doz mill 116 0.56 0.69 2.34 86.2 78.0 64.9 big gossan mill 54 2.26 0.99 13.82 91.6 65.8 63.8 grasberg block cave c mill 962 1.03 0.78 3.50 84.4 64.7 57.2 kucing liar c mill 395 1.27 1.09 6.93 85.2 46.3 39.6 2,116 africa tenke fungurume agitation leach 99 3.19 0.37 86.6 75.7 total fcx - 100% basis 14,288 a. recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. grade not shown because of rounding. c. undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. 34 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2015 (continued) recoverable reserves copper gold moly silver cobalt fcx's processing billion million billion million billion interest method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. lbs. north america morenci 85% mill 5.7 0.17 crushed leach 3.6 rom leach 4.1 bagdad 100% mill 7.5 0.1 0.38 26.1 rom leach 0.1 safford 100% crushed leach 0.5 sierrita 100% mill 9.9 0.1 1.04 51.3 chino 100% mill 1.5 0.1 0.01 1.9 rom leach 0.2 tyrone 100% rom leach 0.1 henderson 100% mill 0.25 climax 100% mill 0.53 cobre 100% mill 0.1 rom leach 0.2 33.5 0.3 2.38 79.3 recoverable metal in stockpiles a 2.1 0.02 100% operations 35.6 0.3 2.40 79.3 consolidated b 33.5 0.3 2.38 79.3 net equity interest c 33.5 0.3 2.38 79.3 south america cerro verde 53.56% mill 26.2 0.65 82.3 crushed leach 0.7 rom leach 0.2 el abra 51% crushed leach 2.1 rom leach 0.1 29.3 0.65 82.3 recoverable metal in stockpiles a 1.5 0.02 2.9 100% operations 30.8 0.67 85.2 consolidated b 30.8 0.67 85.2 net equity interest c 16.4 0.35 45.6 indonesia dmlz d mill 7.9 8.7 42.2 grasberg open pit d mill 2.6 4.4 5.3 doz d mill 1.2 2.0 5.6 big gossan d mill 2.5 1.1 15.3 grasberg block cave d mill 18.4 15.6 61.9 kucing liar d mill 9.4 6.4 34.9 42.0 38.2 165.2 recoverable metal in stockpiles a 0.1 0.1 0.2 100% operations 42.1 38.3 165.4 consolidated b 28.0 26.8 106.7 net equity interest c 25.3 24.3 96.7 africa tenke fungurume 56% agitation leach 6.0 0.61 recoverable metal in stockpiles a 1.2 0.26 100% operations 7.2 0.87 consolidated b 7.2 0.87 net equity interest c 4.1 0.49 total fcx 100% basis 115.7 38.6 3.07 329.9 0.87 total fcx consolidated basis b 99.5 27.1 3.05 271.2 0.87 total fcx net equity interest c 79.3 24.6 2.73 221.6 0.49 a. refer to "mill and leach stockpiles" for additional information. b. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. refer to notes 3 and 18 for further discussion of our joint ventures. c. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. d. our joint venture agreement with rio tinto provides that pt-fi will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of december 31,1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow. 35 table of contents in defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. the objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. we use a "break-even cutoff grade" to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. the break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. we value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. the calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. the table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of december 31, 2015 : copper equivalent cutoff grade (percent) molybdenum cutoff grade (percent) mill crushed or agitation leach rom leach mill north america morenci 0.26 0.18 0.03 bagdad 0.20 0.06 safford 0.12 sierrita 0.18 chino 0.24 0.08 tyrone 0.10 henderson 0.12 climax 0.05 cobre 0.26 0.06 south america cerro verde 0.17 0.19 0.14 el abra 0.10 0.06 indonesia dmlz 0.81 grasberg open pit 0.25 doz 0.88 big gossan 1.88 grasberg block cave 0.78 kucing liar 0.94 africa tenke fungurume 1.37 36 table of contents drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. the following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: average drill hole spacing (in meters) proven probable mining unit mill leach mill leach north america morenci open pit 86 86 122 122 bagdad open pit 86 86 122 122 safford open pit 86 122 sierrita open pit 73 104 miami open pit 61 91 chino open pit 43 86 86 122 tyrone open pit 86 86 henderson block cave 47 96 climax open pit 61 91 cobre open pit 61 61 91 91 south america cerro verde open pit 50 50 100 100 el abra open pit 75 120 indonesia dmlz block cave 16 58 grasberg open pit open pit 35 75 doz block cave 23 57 big gossan open stope 12 36 grasberg block cave block cave 34 81 kucing liar block cave 39 98 africa tenke fungurume open pit 50 100 37 table of contents production sequencing the following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body and from related stockpiles. the chart also shows the term of pt-fi's cow. production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. the sequencing dates shown in the chart below include development activity that results in metal production. the ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. in addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below. mill and leach stockpiles mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from an ore body and are available for copper recovery. mill stockpiles contain sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. leach stockpiles contain oxide ores and certain secondary sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. 38 table of contents expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. total copper recovery in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including processing methodology, processing variables, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 80 percent of total copper recovery may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of december 31, 2015 : recoverable million average recovery copper metric tons ore grade (%) rate (%) (billion pounds) mill stockpiles cerro verde 159 0.32 81.8 0.9 grasberg minerals district 14 0.44 74.9 0.1 173 1.0 leach stockpiles morenci 5,982 0.24 2.2 0.7 bagdad 499 0.24 1.5 a safford 213 0.44 14.3 0.3 sierrita 650 0.15 11.0 0.3 miami 498 0.39 2.9 0.1 chino 1,695 0.26 5.3 0.5 tyrone 1,121 0.28 2.3 0.2 cerro verde 388 0.52 5.0 0.2 el abra 644 0.43 5.9 0.4 tenke fungurume 45 1.31 90.9 1.2 11,735 3.9 total fcx - 100% basis 4.9 total fcx - consolidated basis b 4.8 total fcx - net equity interest c 3.5 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. consolidated stockpiles represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. refer to notes 3 and 18 for further discussion of our joint ventures. c. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. mineralized material we hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. however, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $2.20 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold, $12 per pound for molybdenum and $20 per ounce for silver. 39 table of contents mineralized material estimated at december 31, 2015 milling material leaching material total mineralized material million million million fcx's metric copper gold moly silver metric copper metric interest tons % g/t % g/t tons % tons north america morenci 85% 598 0.28 0.02 921 0.21 1,519 bagdad 100% 746 0.27 a 0.02 1.2 3 0.22 749 safford 100% 188 0.65 0.12 2.4 60 0.31 248 sierrita 100% 1,370 0.19 a 0.02 1.1 1,370 chino 100% 180 0.47 0.03 0.01 0.4 37 0.26 217 tyrone 100% 11 0.43 11 henderson 100% 78 0.14 78 climax 100% 337 0.13 337 cobre 100% 34 0.50 0.09 1.3 34 ajo 100% 437 0.40 0.06 0.01 0.8 437 cochise/bisbee 100% 250 0.46 250 lone star 100% 679 0.47 679 sanchez 100% 148 0.29 148 tohono 100% 220 0.72 270 0.67 490 twin buttes 100% 73 0.62 0.04 6.4 44 0.23 117 christmas 100% 201 0.39 0.05 a 1.0 201 south america cerro verde 53.56% 250 0.35 0.01 1.4 33 0.48 283 el abra 51% 2,024 0.45 0.02 0.01 1.4 199 0.30 2,223 indonesia grasberg minerals district 54.38% b 2,207 0.72 0.63 3.5 2,207 africa tenke fungurume c 56% 52 4.10 31 2.88 83 kisanfu c 95% 49 2.48 47 3.16 96 total fcx - 100% basis 9,044 2,733 11,777 total fcx - consolidated basis d 8,071 2,595 10,666 total fcx - net equity interest e 6,814 2,466 9,280 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. fcx's interest in the grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership. c. stated tonnage also includes cobalt at tenke fungurume (0.31 percent) and kisanfu (1.15 percent). d. consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for joint venture partner interests in the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. refer to notes 3 and 18 for further discussion of our joint ventures. e. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. 40 table of contents oil and gas operations through our wholly owned oil and gas subsidiary, fm o&amp;g, our portfolio of oil and gas assets includes significant oil production facilities and growth potential in the deepwater gom, established oil production onshore and offshore california, large onshore natural gas resources in the haynesville shale in louisiana, natural gas production from the madden area in central wyoming, and a position in the inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend onshore in south louisiana. for the year 2015 , 88 percent of our oil and gas revenues, excluding the impact of derivative contracts, were from sales of oil and ngls. revised operating plans we are taking continuing actions to reduce oil and gas costs and capital expenditures. fm o&amp;g is undertaking a near-term deferral of exploration and development expenditures by idling the three deepwater gom drillships it has under contract. refer to md&amp;a for further discussion. acreage at december 31, 2015 , we owned interests in oil and gas leases covering 4.4 million gross acres ( 2.5 million acres net to our interest). developed acres are acres spaced or assigned to productive wells and do not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the lease. undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. the following table summarizes, by geographic area, the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage in which we held interests at december 31, 2015 : developed undeveloped gross acres net acres gross acres net acres u.s.: louisiana: onshore 388,392 79,141 105,257 80,074 offshore 328,014 189,197 655,874 491,830 texas: onshore 16,865 3,621 209 653 offshore 28,800 15,906 california: onshore 60,898 60,406 65,259 40,847 offshore 44,049 39,618 712 712 wyoming 78,007 11,018 31,968 18,394 nevada 246,073 246,073 other states 1,324 368 181,342 137,293 946,349 399,275 1,286,694 1,015,876 morocco 2,154,014 1,120,087 946,349 399,275 3,440,708 2,135,963 as of december 31, 2015, 84 percent of our total net leasehold acreage is undeveloped. many of our oil and gas leases require us to drill wells that are commercially productive, and if we are unsuccessful, we could lose our rights under such leases. at december 31, 2015, 24 percent of our total u.s. net undeveloped acres was covered by leases that expire from 2016 through 2018. as a result of declining crude oil prices, fm o&amp;g's current plans anticipate that the majority of expiring acreage will not be retained by drilling operations or other means. currently, fm o&amp;g has a commitment to drill a second well in morocco in 2016. however, fm o&amp;g is actively negotiating with its partners to modify the work program, which, if successful, would result in changes in the timing, amount or type of future commitment. the exploration permits covering fm o&amp;g's morocco acreage expire at the end of 2016 ; however, fm o&amp;g has the ability, under certain circumstances, to extend the exploration permits through 2019 . 41 table of contents properties our oil and gas properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, including other mineral encumbrances and restrictions. we do not believe that any of these burdens materially interfere with our use of the properties in the operation of our business. we believe that we have satisfactory title to or rights in all of our producing properties. as is customary in the oil and gas industry, we conduct minimal investigation of title at the time we acquire undeveloped properties. we conduct title investigations and receive title opinions of local counsel only before we commence drilling operations. we believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our other assets. although title to our properties is subject to encumbrances in certain cases, we believe that none of these burdens will materially detract from the value of our properties or from our interest therein or will materially interfere with our use in the operation of our business. gulf of mexico . deepwater gom. fm o&amp;g has a large strategic position in the deepwater gom with significant current oil production, strong cash margins and existing infrastructure with excess production and handling capacity. fm o&amp;g's deepwater gom properties and activities are principally located in four focus areas, which we refer to as atwater valley, green canyon, mississippi canyon and keathley canyon. following is a summary of fm o&amp;g's deepwater gom platforms at december 31, 2015 : capacity per day platform working interest field location type of platform production commenced water depth (feet) oil (mbbls) gas (mmcf) holstein a 100% green canyon blocks 644, 645 and 688 truss spar 2004 4,300 113 142 horn mountain a 100% mississippi canyon blocks 126 and 127 truss spar 2002 5,400 75 72 marlin hub a 100% several b tension leg 2000 3,200 60 235 lucius 25.1% c keathley canyon blocks 874, 875, 918 and 919 truss spar 2015 7,200 80 450 heidelberg 12.5% green canyon blocks 859, 903, 904 and 948 truss spar 2016 d 5,300 80 80 ram powell 31.0% viosca knoll blocks 911 to 913 and 955 to 957 tension leg 1997 3,200 70 310 hoover 33.3% several e deep draft caisson vessel 2000 4,800 100 325 a. we are the operator of the holstein, horn mountain and marlin hub platforms. b. the marlin hub is the production facility for the marlin field (s/2 viosca knoll block 871 and n/2 viosca knoll block 915), the dorado field (s/2 viosca knoll block 915) and the king field (mississippi canyon blocks 84, 85, and 129). the marlin field currently produces via a combination of platform and subsea tie-back wells, while the dorado and king fields currently produce exclusively via subsea wells and tie-back infrastructure. c. fm o&amp;g's consolidated subsidiary plains offshore operations inc. (plains offshore), holds a 20 percent working interest in the lucius development. fm o&amp;g's combined ownership in the lucius development, including the 20 percent held by plains offshore, is 25.1 percent. refer to note 2 for further discussion of plains offshore. d. in january 2016, first oil production commenced from three wells in the heidelberg oil field. e. the hoover platform is located in alaminos canyon block 25. the hoover field is located in alaminos canyon blocks 25 and 26. fm o&amp;g has a 100-percent interest in the holstein deep development, which is located in green canyon block 643, west of the 100-percent owned holstein platform, in 3,890 feet of water. completion activities for the initial three-well subsea tieback development program are progressing, with first production expected in mid-2016. fm o&amp;g also owns working interests in several oil discoveries in the atwater valley focus area, including vito and power nap. fm o&amp;g has an 18.67 percent interest in vito, which is a deep subsalt miocene oil discovery made in 42 table of contents 2009, located in 4,000 feet of water in the mississippi canyon area (blocks 940, 941, 984 and 985) and a 50 percent interest in power nap, which is located in close proximity to vito. fm o&amp;g's deepwater gom exploration portfolio consists of interests in 136 blocks containing 55 prospects in the pliocene, miocene and lower tertiary reservoirs. gom shelf. the gom shelf properties are primarily located on the outer continental shelf in the shallow waters (less than 500 feet of water) of the gom and onshore in the gulf coast area of louisiana, with drilling depths not exceeding 15,000 feet considered to be traditional shelf prospects. inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous. prospects with drilling depths below the salt weld (generally at depths exceeding 25,000 feet) are considered inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous prospects. fm o&amp;g is the operator and has a 72 percent working interest (an approximate 49 percent net revenue interest) in highlander, located onshore in south louisiana. in december 2015, gross rates from the highlander well averaged 44 mmcf per day ( 21 mmcf per day net to fm o&amp;g). california . fm o&amp;g's california assets provide an established oil production base with low-decline production profiles and long-lived reserves. onshore california. fm o&amp;g's onshore properties are located in the los angeles basin and san joaquin basin. fm o&amp;g holds a 100 percent working interest in the majority of its onshore positions including the inglewood, las cienegas, montebello, packard and san vicente fields in the los angeles basin, and the cymric, midway sunset, south belridge, and north belridge fields in the san joaquin basin. the los angeles basin properties are characterized by light crude oil (21 to 32 degree american petroleum institute (api) gravity), have well depths ranging from 2,000 feet to over 10,000 feet and include both primary production and secondary recovery using waterflood methods (whereby water is injected into the reservoir formation to displace residual oil), where producing wells have a high ratio of water produced compared to total liquids produced (high water cuts). the san joaquin basin properties are characterized by heavier oil (12 to 16 degree api gravity) and shallow wells (generally less than 2,000 feet) that require enhanced oil recovery techniques, including steam injection. fm o&amp;g also holds a 100 percent working interest in the arroyo grande field located in san luis obispo county, which is characterized by heavier oil (12 to 16 degree api gravity) and well depths averaging 1,700 feet requiring continuous steam injection. offshore california. all of the offshore california properties are located in federal waters approximately three to seven miles offshore in the santa maria basin. fm o&amp;g holds a 69.3 percent working interest in the point arguello unit, composed of the hidalgo, hermosa and harvest platforms, and the various partnerships owning the related transportation, processing and marketing infrastructure. since second-quarter 2015, production from point arguello platforms has been shut in following the shutdowns of a third-party operated pipeline system that transports oil to various california refineries. fm o&amp;g also holds a 100 percent working interest in the point pedernales field, which includes the irene platform, that is utilized to access the federal outer continental shelf monterey reservoir by extended reach directional wells and support facilities which lie within the onshore lompoc field. haynesville . as of december 31, 2015, in the haynesville shale, fm o&amp;g has a non-operated interest in over 1,450 producing wells with an average working interest of 8.6 percent and leases covering 72,000 net acres. the haynesville shale is characterized by dry gas production from the jurassic-aged haynesville shale formation in louisiana and eastern texas, and typical well depth is 10,500 feet. the area has historically been developed with horizontal wells more than 4,000 feet at a measured total depth of 16,000 feet. madden . fm o&amp;g owns a non-operated 14 percent working interest in the madden deep unit and lost cabin gas plant located in central wyoming. the madden deep unit is a federal unit operated by a third party and consists of acreage in the wind river basin. the madden area is characterized by gas production from multiple stratigraphic horizons of the lower fort union, lance, mesaverde and cody sands and the madison dolomite. production from the madden deep unit is typically found at depths ranging from 5,500 to 25,000 feet. exploration and development activities fm o&amp;g has significant proved, probable and possible reserves, with valuable infrastructure and associated resources with attractive long-term production and development potential. 43 table of contents since commencing development activities in 2014 at its three 100-percent-owned production platforms in the deepwater gom, fm o&amp;g has drilled 14 wells in producing fields with positive results, including the king d-10 well in fourth-quarter 2015. four of these wells have been brought on production, including the king d-12 well in november 2015. fm o&amp;g plans to complete and place six additional wells on production in 2016. capital expenditures for our oil and gas operations totaled $3.0 billion in 2015 (including $2.5 billion incurred for deepwater gom and $0.2 billion for the inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend), $3.2 billion for the year 2014 (including $2.1 billion incurred for the deepwater gom and $0.7 billion for the inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend) and $1.45 billion for the seven-month period ending december 31, 2013 (including $0.4 billion incurred for deepwater gom and $0.2 billion for the inboard lower tertiary/cretaceous natural gas trend). in response to market conditions, fm o&amp;g is undertaking a near-term deferral of exploration and development expenditures by idling the three deepwater gom drillships it has under contract. fm o&amp;g expects to incur idle rig costs associated with its drillship contracts totaling $0.6 billion in 2016 and $0.4 billion in 2017. excluding amounts for idle rig costs, capital expenditures for oil and gas operations for the year 2016 are estimated to total $1.5 billion , with approximately 85 percent of the capital budget expected to be directed to the gom. refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of fm o&amp;g's current exploration and development activities. production and sales data following presents summary oil and gas production and sales data for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 , and the seven-month period ending december 31, 2013 : years ended december 31, seven months ended 2015 2014 december 31, 2013 gom a,b oil (mbbls) 22,161 19,681 11,364 natural gas (mmcf) 35,878 c 28,700 17,231 ngls (mbbls) 2,209 2,027 1,049 mboe 30,350 26,491 15,286 california oil (mbbls) 12,935 13,732 7,977 natural gas (mmcf) 2,154 c 2,368 c 1,318 c ngls (mbbls) 166 171 97 mboe 13,460 14,298 8,293 haynesville/madden/other oil (mbbls) 158 222 83 natural gas (mmcf) 51,626 42,364 26,782 ngls (mbbls) 50 35 27 mboe 8,812 7,318 4,574 eagle ford d oil (mbbls) 6,481 7,206 natural gas (mmcf) 7,410 8,844 ngls (mbbls) 978 1,244 mboe 8,694 9,924 total u.s. oil and gas operations oil (mbbls) 35,254 40,116 26,630 natural gas (mmcf) 89,658 80,842 54,175 ngls (mbbls) 2,425 3,211 2,417 mboe 52,622 56,801 38,077 average cost per boe: production costs e $ 17.14 $ 18.00 $ 15.18 production and ad valorem taxes 1.45 2.08 1.96 cash production costs f $ 18.59 $ 20.08 $ 17.14 a. includes properties in the deepwater gom and on the shelf, including the inboard lower tertiary /cretaceous natural gas trend. b. horn mountain represented 17 percent of our proved oil and gas reserves at december 31, 2015. during 2015, production and sales from horn mountain totaled 3.2 mmboe (consisting of 2.9 mmbbls of oil, 1.1 bcf of natural gas and 0.1 mmbbls 44 table of contents of ngls). no individual fields represented 15 percent or more of our proved oil and gas reserves at december 31, 2014 and 2013. c. natural gas sales from gom are net of fuel used in operations totaling 1,125 mmcf in 2015. natural gas sales from california are net of fuel used in operations totaling 588 mmcf in 2015, 1,190 mmcf in 2014 and 780 mmcf for the seven-month period ending december 31, 2013 . d. in june 2014, we completed the sale of eagle ford. e. reflects costs incurred to operate and maintain wells and related equipment and facilities. f. refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of cash production costs per boe and for a reconciliation to production costs reported in our consolidated financial statements. oil and gas reserves all of our estimated proved and probable reserves are based upon reserve reports prepared by netherland, sewell, &amp; associates, inc. (nsai) and ryder scott company, l.p. (ryder scott), independent petroleum engineering firms. a copy of the independent petroleum engineering firms' reserve reports are filed as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k. our reserve estimates are prepared in accordance with guidelines established by the sec as prescribed by regulation s-x, rule 4-10. fm o&amp;g's technical staff estimates, with reasonable certainty, the economically producible oil and gas. the practices for estimating hydrocarbons in place include, but are not limited to, mapping, seismic interpretation of two-dimensional and/or three-dimensional data, core analysis, mechanical properties of formations, thermal maturity, well logs of existing penetrations, correlation of known penetrations, decline curve analysis of producing locations with significant production history, well testing, static bottom hole testing, flowing bottom hole pressure analysis and pressure and rate transient analysis. internal control and qualifications of third party engineers and internal staff. the technical personnel responsible for preparing the reserve estimates at nsai and ryder scott meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserves information promulgated by the society of petroleum engineers. both nsai and ryder scott are independent firms of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists and petrophysicists; neither firm owns an interest in our properties nor are employed on a contingent fee basis. fm o&amp;g's internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals work closely with our independent reserve engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of data furnished to nsai and ryder scott in their reserves estimation process. throughout each fiscal year, fm o&amp;g internal technical staff meets with representatives of the independent reserve engineers to review properties and discuss methods and assumptions used in preparation of the proved reserves estimates. fm o&amp;g provides historical information to the independent reserve engineers, including ownership interest, oil and gas production, well test data, commodity prices and operating and development costs. the nsai and ryder scott reserve reports are reviewed with representatives of nsai and ryder scott and fm o&amp;g's internal technical staff before dissemination of the information. additionally, fm o&amp;g's senior management reviews the nsai and ryder scott reserve reports. the internal reservoir engineering staff are supervised by fm o&amp;g's vice president of engineering, who has 39 years of technical experience in petroleum engineering and reservoir evaluation and analysis. this individual directs the activities of our internal reservoir engineering staff for the internal reserve estimation process and also to provide the appropriate data to nsai and ryder scott for the year-end oil and gas reserves estimation process. the preparation of proved oil and gas reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures. these procedures, which are intended to ensure reliability of reserve estimations, include (i) the review and verification of historical production data; (ii) the review by fmo&amp;g's vice president of engineering of annually reported proved reserves, including the review of significant reserve changes and new proved undeveloped (pud) reserves additions; (iii) the direct reporting responsibilities by fm o&amp;g's vice president of engineering to fm o&amp;g's president and chief operating officer; (iv) the verification of property ownership by fm o&amp;g's land department; and (v) no employee's compensation is tied to the amount of reserves reported. proved reserves. our proved reserve volumes have been determined in accordance with sec guidelines, which require the use of an average price, calculated as the twelve-month historical average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference price as adjusted for location and quality differentials, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions and the impact of derivatives. our reference prices for reserve determination are the wti spot price for crude oil and the henry hub price for natural gas, which were $50.28 per barrel of oil and $2.59 per mmbtu of natural gas at december 31, 2015 . these prices are held constant throughout the life of the oil and gas properties, except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including the use of fixed and determinable contractual escalations. in accordance with the guidelines and 45 table of contents excluding the impact of derivative instruments, the average realized prices used in our reserve reports as of december 31, 2015 , were $47.80 per barrel of oil and $2.55 per mcf of natural gas. the scope and results of procedures employed by nsai and ryder scott are summarized in their reserve reports. for purposes of reserve estimation, we and the independent petroleum engineers use technical and economic data including well logs, geologic maps, seismic data, well test data, production data, historical price and cost information, and property ownership interests. our reserves have been estimated using deterministic methods. standard engineering and geoscience methods were used, or a combination of methods, including performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy, which we and the independent petroleum engineers considered to be appropriate and necessary to categorize and estimate reserves in accordance with sec definitions and regulations. a significant portion of these reserves are for undeveloped locations and are based on estimates of reserve volumes and recovery efficiencies along with analogy to properties with similar geologic and reservoir characteristics. because these estimates depend on many assumptions, any or all of which may differ substantially from actual results, reserve estimates may differ from the quantities of oil and gas that fm o&amp;g ultimately recovers. proved reserves represent quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. the term reasonable certainty implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. the following table presents our estimated proved oil and gas reserves as of december 31, 2015 , all of which are located in the u.s.: proved oil and gas reserves estimated at december 31, 2015 oil a gas total (mmbbls) (bcf) (mmboe) proved developed: gom 59 116 78 california 69 12 71 haynesville/madden/other 1 117 20 129 245 169 proved undeveloped: gom 65 29 70 california 13 13 78 29 83 total proved reserves 207 274 252 a. includes 9 mmbbls of ngl proved reserves, consisting of 6 mmbbls of proved developed and 3 mmbbls of proved undeveloped. at december 31, 2015 , we have an estimated total proved reserve life of 4.7 years and a proved developed reserve life of 3.2 years. at december 31, 2015 , total proved oil and gas reserves were 252 mmboe, including 83 mmboe of pud reserves. with the exception of one planned sidetrack development well in one of our deepwater gom properties that cannot be executed until the current producing well depletes, 98 percent of our pud reserves are scheduled for development within five years, and $1.6 billion (or 97 percent) of our estimated future pud capital is associated with the development of those reserves. total estimated pud reserves of 83 mmboe at december 31, 2015 , decreased from estimated pud reserves of 144 mmboe at december 31, 2014 , reflecting downward revisions of 72 mmboe primarily related to lower oil and gas price realizations. these revisions were partly offset by increases of 11 mmboe primarily associated with the continued development of our deepwater gom properties. at december 31, 2014, fm o&amp;g had 1,176 pud locations, including 132 injector wells, of which 122 pud locations (with associated proved reserves of 28 mmboe) were scheduled to be drilled during 2015. during 2015, fm o&amp;g invested $0.6 billion to drill and complete 35 pud locations, which resulted in converting 1 mmboe from pud reserves to proved developed reserves. of the remaining 87 pud locations scheduled to be drilled in 2015, 81 locations (with associated proved reserves of 3 mmboe) were eliminated based on the current price environment, 46 table of contents 4 locations (with associated proved reserves of 17 mmboe) were drilled and are expected to be completed in 2016 and 2017, and 2 locations (with associated proved reserves of 7 mmboe) were delayed to future periods. at december 31, 2015, fm o&amp;g had 186 pud locations, including 4 injector wells. during 2016, 33 of these pud locations (including 2 injector wells) with associated proved reserves of 35 mmboe are scheduled to be developed. during 2015 , fm o&amp;g participated in 37 gross exploratory wells, of which 33 were successful, and 26 gross development wells, of which 24 were successful (refer to "drilling activities"). the following table reflects the present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes from the production and sale of our estimated proved reserves reconciled to the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows (standardized measure) at december 31, 2015 (in millions): estimated undiscounted future net cash flows before income taxes $ 1,638 present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes (pv-10) a,b $ 1,392 discounted future income taxes c standardized measure (refer to note 21) $ 1,392 a. in accordance with sec guidelines, estimates of future net cash flows from our proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference prices as adjusted for location and quality differentials. refer to discussion above for pricing used in our reserve reports at december 31, 2015. b. the present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes (pv-10) is not considered a u.s. generally accepted accounting principle (gaap) financial measure. we believe that our pv-10 presentation is an important measure and useful to our investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves before taking into account the related future income taxes, as such taxes may differ among companies because of differences in the amounts and timing of deductible basis, net operating loss carryforwards and other factors. we believe investors use our pv-10 as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our proved reserves to the reserve estimates of other companies. pv-10 is not a measure of financial or operating performance under u.s. gaap and is not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. pv-10 should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under u.s. gaap. c. future tax deductions are expected to be sufficient to fully offset future taxable income, resulting in no future income tax obligation at december 31, 2015 . refer to note 21 for further discussion of our proved reserves. probable reserves. all of our probable oil and gas reserves at december 31, 2015 , are based upon reserve reports prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firm of nsai. probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves, but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. in addition to the uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves, probable reserves may be assigned to areas where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonably certain criterion. probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. probable reserve estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves. undeveloped reserves that meet the reasonably certain, economic and other requirements to be classified as proved undeveloped, except that they are not expected to be developed within five years, are classified as probable reserves. 47 table of contents the following table presents our estimated probable oil and gas reserves at december 31, 2015 : probable oil and gas reserves estimated at december 31, 2015 oil a gas total (mmbbls) (bcf) (mmboe) probable developed b : gom 20 45 27 california 5 5 25 45 32 probable undeveloped: gom 65 29 70 california 27 2 27 92 31 97 total probable reserves 117 76 129 a. includes 5 mmbbls of ngl probable reserves, consisting of 2 mmbbls of probable developed and 3 mmbbls of probable undeveloped. b. reflects reserves associated with incremental recovery from existing production/injection wells that require minimal to no future development costs and reserves associated with work performed on existing producers/injectors that do not meet the reasonable certainty requirements to be classified as proved reserves. drilling activities the following table provides the total number of wells that we drilled during the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 , and the seven-month period ending december 31, 2013 : years ended december 31, seven months ended 2015 2014 december 31, 2013 gross net gross net gross net exploratory productive: oil 2 1 25 21 40 35 gas 31 5 21 2 25 2 dry 4 3 10 7 1 1 37 9 56 30 66 38 development productive: oil 7 3 184 174 71 66 gas 17 2 75 10 23 8 dry 2 2 2 1 1 26 7 261 184 95 75 63 16 317 214 161 113 in addition to the wells drilled, there were 9 gross exploratory and 19 gross development wells (5 net exploratory and 7 net development wells) in progress at december 31, 2015 . productive wells we had working interests in 3,060 gross (2,976 net) active producing oil wells and 1,759 gross (213 net) active producing natural gas wells at december 31, 2015 ; 3,069 gross (2,991 net) active producing oil wells and 1,710 gross (211 net) active producing natural gas wells at december 31, 2014 ; and 3,310 gross (3,153 net) active producing oil wells and 1,651 gross (238 net) active producing natural gas wells at december 31, 2013 . one or more completions in the same well bore are considered one well. if any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion, such well is classified as an oil well. at december 31, 2015 , we owned interests in five gross wells containing multiple completions. 48 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. this report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of united states (u.s.) federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as projections or expectations relating to ore grades and milling rates; production and sales volumes; unit net cash costs; cash production costs per barrel of oil equivalent (boe); operating cash flows; capital expenditures; debt reduction initiatives; exploration efforts and results; development and production activities and costs; liquidity; tax rates; the impact of copper, gold, molybdenum, cobalt, crude oil and natural gas price changes; the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings; reserve estimates; future dividend payments; and share purchases and sales. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. we caution readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following: financial risks declines in the market prices of copper, gold and oil have adversely affected our earnings, cash flows and asset values and, if sustained or intensified, may adversely affect our ability to repay debt. fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and oil have caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in our financial performance and in the trading prices of our debt and common stock. our financial results vary with fluctuations in the market prices of the commodities we produce, primarily copper, gold and oil, and to a lesser extent molybdenum, silver, cobalt and natural gas. as described below, during 2015 and in early 2016, copper and oil prices declined significantly. if low prices persist or decline further, they may continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial results, the value of our assets and/or our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations; and may continue to depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. in response to lower commodities prices, we have announced revised operating plans that incorporate significant reductions in capital spending, production curtailments at certain north and south america mines and actions to reduce operating, exploration and administrative costs, which may not achieve all the results we anticipate. if market prices for our primary commodities continue to decline or persist at low levels, we may have to further revise our operating plans, including curtailing production further, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. we may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, in which case we may incur additional losses, and those losses may be material. we are also pursuing asset sales and joint venture arrangements to raise proceeds for debt reduction. we may be unable to receive favorable terms for asset sales or joint venture arrangements in the current market environment, which may prevent us from achieving our desired debt reduction levels. fluctuations in commodities prices are caused by varied and complex factors beyond our control, including global supply and demand balances and inventory levels; global economic and political conditions; international regulatory, trade and tax policies; commodities investment activity and speculation; the price and availability of substitute products; and changes in technology. in particular, copper prices may be affected by demand from china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world, and by changes in demand for industrial, commercial and residential products containing copper. copper prices have declined significantly during 2015, with london metal exchange (lme) spot copper prices averaging $3.11 per pound in 2014 and $2.49 per pound in 2015. on december 31, 2015 , the lme spot copper price was $2.13 per pound. copper prices weakened further in early 2016 with the lme spot copper price ranging from $1.96 per pound to $2.13 per pound from january 1, 2016, to february 19, 2016 . the decline in prices during 2015 resulted in non-cash charges for copper and molybdenum inventory adjustments ( $338 million ) and long-lived mining asset impairments ( $37 million ), as more fully discussed in notes 4 and 5. copper prices at or below the december 31, 2015 , level could result in additional inventory adjustments and impairment charges for our long-lived mining assets. other events that could result in impairment of our long-lived mining assets include, but are not limited to, decreases in estimated proven and probable mineral reserves and any event that might otherwise have a material adverse effect on mine production costs. 49 table of contents factors affecting gold prices may include the relative strength of the u.s. dollar to other currencies, inflation and interest rate expectations, purchases and sales of gold by governments and central banks, demand from china and india, two of the world ' largest consumers of gold, and global demand for jewelry containing gold. the london pm gold price averaged $1,160 per ounce in 2015 and $1,266 per ounce in 2014, and was $1,062 per ounce on december 31, 2015. crude oil prices have been and could be affected in the future by continued development of shale reserves through hydraulic fracturing, actions of the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other major oil producing nations, political and weather conditions in oil producing regions, transportation and refinery capacity, the amount of foreign imports of oil into the u.s., and the impact of legislation adopted in december 2015 lifting 40-year old restrictions on exporting u.s. oil. oil prices have declined significantly since mid-2014, with brent crude oil prices averaging $99.45 per barrel in 2014 and $53.64 per barrel in 2015. on december 31, 2015 , the brent crude oil price was $37.28 . in early 2016, oil prices weakened further to multi-year lows in response to excess global supplies and relatively weak economic conditions with brent crude oil prices ranging from $27.88 per barrel to $37.22 per barrel from january 1, 2016, to february 19, 2016 . as further discussed in note 1 and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a), lower oil prices, and to a lesser extent natural gas prices, were a significant contributing factor to the non-cash impairment charges totaling $13.1 billion for the year 2015 and $3.7 billion for the year 2014 to write-down the carrying value of our proved oil and gas properties. as further described in note 1, under full cost accounting rules, a "ceiling test" is conducted each quarter to review the carrying value of proved oil and gas properties for impairment. the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec) requires that the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference prices be used to determine the ceiling test limitation. using west texas intermediate (wti) as the reference oil price, the average price was $50.28 per barrel at december 31, 2015 , compared with $94.99 per barrel at december 31, 2014. if the twelve-month historical average price remains below the december 31, 2015 , twelve-month average of $50.28 per barrel, the ceiling test limitation will decrease potentially resulting in additional ceiling test impairments of our oil and gas properties. the wti spot oil price was $29.64 per barrel at february 19, 2016 . in addition to declines in the trailing twelve-month average oil and natural gas prices, other factors that could result in future impairment of our oil and gas properties, include costs transferred from unevaluated properties to the full cost pool without corresponding proved oil and natural gas reserve additions, negative reserve revisions and the future incurrence of exploration, development and production costs. at december 31, 2015, carrying costs for unevaluated properties were $4.8 billion . these costs will be transferred into the full cost pool as the properties are evaluated and proved reserves are established or if impairment is determined. if these activities do not result in additions to discounted future net cash flows from proved oil and natural gas reserves at least equal to the related costs transferred (net of related tax effects), ceiling test impairments may occur. during 2015, we transferred $6.4 billion of costs associated with unevaluated properties to the full cost pool mostly reflecting impairment of the carrying values of unevaluated properties. our debt and other financial commitments may limit our financial and operating flexibility. at december 31, 2015 , our total consolidated debt was $ 20.4 billion (see note 8) and our total consolidated cash was $224 million . we also have various other financial commitments, including for reclamation and environmental obligations, take-or-pay contracts and leases. our level of indebtedness and other financial commitments could have important consequences to our business, including the following: limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we operate; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, to engage in future development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt; requiring us to sell assets to reduce debt; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. 50 table of contents on february 26, 2016, we reached agreement with our bank group to amend our revolving credit facility and term loan. the changes pursuant to the revolving credit facility and the term loan included modifications of the maximum leverage ratio and minimum interest expense coverage ratio to provide us with additional flexibility, and the commitment under our revolving credit facility has been reduced by $500 million from $4.0 billion to $3.5 billion. a springing collateral and guarantee trigger was added to the revolving credit facility and term loan. under this provision, if we have not entered into definitive agreements for asset sales totaling $3.0 billion in aggregate by june 30, 2016, that are reasonably expected to close by december 31, 2016, we will be required to secure the revolving credit facility and term loan with a mutually acceptable collateral and guarantee package. if such asset sales totaling $3.0 billion in aggregate have not occurred by december 31, 2016, then the springing collateral and guarantee trigger will go into effect. refer to notes 8 and 18 for further information about the revolving credit facility and term loan. any failure to comply with the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements may result in an event of default that would allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which in turn may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt agreements. our cash flow would not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our debt instruments that are accelerated upon an event of default. since august 2015 and through january 5, 2016, we sold 210 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $9.47 per share under at-the-market equity programs that generated approximately $2 billion in gross proceeds. we may seek to raise additional equity capital to fund operations, reduce debt or improve our financial position, which may have a negative impact to our stock price. for additional information, see note 10. as of february 24, 2016, our senior unsecured debt was rated "bb" with a negative outlook by standard &amp; poor's (s&amp;p), "bbb-" with a negative outlook by fitch ratings (fitch), and "b1" with a negative outlook by moody's investors service (moody's). there is no assurance that our credit ratings will not be downgraded in the future. for more information, refer to the risk factor below relating to mine closure and reclamation regulations and plugging and abandonment obligations related to our oil and gas operations. our strategic review of the oil and gas business and evaluation of other transactions may not result in increased stockholder value. our board of directors (the board) is undertaking a strategic review of alternatives for our oil and gas business. we and our advisors are actively engaged with interested parties in a process to evaluate opportunities that include asset sales and joint venture arrangements that would generate cash proceeds for debt repayment. we are also evaluating transactions involving certain of our mining assets. these initiatives may not result in transactions or other events that will lead to debt reduction or an increase in stockholder value. mine closure and reclamation regulations impose substantial costs on our operations, and include requirements that we provide financial assurance supporting those obligations. we also have plugging and abandonment obligations related to our oil and gas properties, and are required to provide bonds or other forms of financial assurance in connection with those operations. changes in or the failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. we are required by u.s. federal and state laws and regulations to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans for our mining properties if we are unable to do so. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and state agencies may also require financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions that are required under settlements of enforcement actions under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980 (cercla) or equivalent state regulations. refer to note 12 for additional information regarding our financial assurance obligations. with respect to our mining operations, most of our financial assurance obligations are imposed by state laws that vary significantly by jurisdiction. currently there are no financial assurance requirements for active mining operations under cercla, but in august 2014, several environmental organizations initiated litigation against the epa to require it to set a schedule for adopting financial assurance regulations under cercla governing the hard rock mining industry. the epa and the environmental organizations reached a joint agreement and submitted it to the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit for approval. notwithstanding industry objections, the court approved the agreement on january 29, 2016, thereby requiring the epa to propose financial assurance 51 table of contents regulations for the hard rock mining industry by december 1, 2016, and to provide notice of its final action by december 1, 2017. the court also ruled that the epa has no obligation to promulgate rules at all and has until the end of 2016 to decide whether or not to proceed. it is uncertain how the new requirements, if promulgated, will affect the amount and form of our existing and future financial assurance obligations or the extent to which they will supplement or replace state requirements. any new regulations may, however, be financially material and adverse. we are also subject to financial assurance requirements in connection with our oil and gas operations under both state and federal laws. for example, permits, bonding and insurance are required to drill, operate, and plug and abandon wells. financial responsibility requirements are also required under the oil pollution act of 1990 to cover containment and cleanup costs resulting from an oil spill. in order to cover the various obligations of lessees operating in federal waters, such as the cost to plug and abandon wells and decommission and remove platforms and pipelines at the end of production, the boem generally requires that lessees demonstrate financial strength and reliability according to regulatory standards sufficient to obtain a waiver from the requirement to post supplemental bonds, or post such bonds or other acceptable assurances that those obligations will be satisfied. although we are currently exempt from the requirement to post security under the current rules, we may be required to post security under these rules if the boem determines we are no longer eligible for the exemption, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. in august 2014, the boem issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking in which the agency indicated that it was considering changing the financial assurance requirements, and it currently plans to publish a revised notice in 2016. among other things, the notice states that the boem intends to revise its supplemental bonding procedures to eliminate waivers from the requirement to post security. substantial changes to boem's financial assurance requirements, including a requirement to post significant amounts of security in the form of bonds or similar assurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. the cost for bonds or assurances can be substantial, and there is no assurance that they can be obtained in all cases. our failure to provide financial assurance, or failure to do the same by our co-lessees, could result in boem or the bureau of safety and environmental enforcement (bsee) suspending or terminating operations on affected leases, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2015 , our financial assurance obligations associated with closure, reclamation and remediation of mining sites, and plugging and abandonment obligations in our oil and gas operations totaled approximately $2.6 billion, and a substantial portion of these obligations were satisfied by fcx and fm o&amp;g guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. as a result of the downgrade of the credit ratings of our debt below investment grade by s&amp;p's and moody's, we may be required to provide additional or alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. these other forms of assurance would be costly to provide and, depending on our financial condition and market conditions, may be difficult or impossible to obtain. failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of the affected mines or suspension of the affected oil and gas operations. refer to notes 1 and 12 , for further discussion of our environmental and asset retirement obligations. international risks our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in countries outside the u.s. we are a u.s.-based natural resources company with substantial mining assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru, chile and the democratic republic of congo (drc). accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in countries outside the u.s., our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. risks of conducting business in countries outside of the u.s. include: renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts; expropriation or nationalization of property; changes in another country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, which 52 table of contents because of rising "resource nationalism" in countries around the world, may impose increasingly onerous requirements on foreign operations and investment; political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; changes in the aspirations and expectations of local communities in which we operate with respect to our contributions to employee health and safety, infrastructure and community development and other factors that may affect our social license to operate, all of which lead to increased costs; foreign exchange controls and movements in foreign currency exchange rates; and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of an international court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. may be substantially affected by many unpredictable factors beyond our control, some of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our international operations must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we operate. there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws in recent years, and a steadily increasing focus on enforcement of those laws continues. any violation of those laws could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax disputes with the indonesian and peruvian tax authorities (refer to note 12 for further discussion of these matters). other risks specific to certain countries in which we operate are discussed in more detail below. because our grasberg mining operations in indonesia is a significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia. our mining operations in indonesia are conducted by our subsidiary pt freeport indonesia (pt-fi) pursuant to a contract of work (cow) with the indonesian government. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because of the significance of our indonesia operations to our business, and because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our indonesia operations have been the subject of political debates and of criticism in the indonesian press, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. for further discussion of the history of pt-fi's cow, refer to note 13 . the initial term of pt-fi's cow expires in 2021, but the cow explicitly provides that it can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. pt-fi has been engaged in discussions with officials of the indonesian government since 2012 regarding various provisions of its cow, including extending the term of the cow. notwithstanding provisions in the cow prohibiting it from doing so, the indonesian government has sought to modify existing mining contracts, including pt-fi's cow, to address provisions contained in the mining law enacted in 2009, and mining regulations adopted thereunder, including matters with respect to the size of contract concessions, government revenues, domestic processing of minerals, divestment, provision of local goods and services, conversion from a cow to a licensing framework for extension periods, and a requirement that extensions may be applied for only within two years prior to a cow's expiration. regulations published in january 2014 imposed, among other things, a progressive export duty on copper concentrate and restricts concentrate exports after january 12, 2017. despite pt-fi's rights under its cow to 53 table of contents export concentrate without the payment of duties, pt-fi was unable to obtain administrative approval for exports and operated at approximately half of its capacity from mid-january 2014 through july 2014. in july 2014, pt-fi entered into a memorandum of understanding (mou) with the indonesian government. under the mou, pt-fi provided a $115 million assurance bond to support its commitment for smelter development, agreed to increase royalty rates and agreed to pay export duties (which were set at 7.5 percent, declining to 5.0 percent when smelter development progress exceeds 7.5 percent and are eliminated when development progress exceeds 30 percent). the mou also anticipated an amendment of the cow within six months to address other matters; however, no terms of the cow other than those relating to the smelter bond, increased royalties and export duties were changed. in january 2015, the mou was extended to july 25, 2015, and it expired on that date. the increased royalty rates, export duties and smelter assurance bond remain in effect. pt-fi is required to apply for renewal of export permits at six-month intervals. on july 29, 2015, pt-fi's export permit was renewed through january 28, 2016. in connection with the renewal, export duties were reduced to 5.0 percent, as a result of smelter development progress. on february 9, 2016, pt-fi's export permit was renewed through august 8, 2016. pt-fi will continue to pay a 5.0 percent export duty on concentrate while it reviews its smelter progress with the indonesian government. as of december 31, 2015, we owned 90.64 percent of pt-fi, and the remaining 9.36 percent was owned by the indonesian government. upon completion of an amended cow, which has not yet occurred, we and pt-fi have agreed to divest to the indonesian national or local governments and/or indonesian nationals up to a 30 percent interest (an additional 20.64 percent) in pt-fi at fair market value. pt-fi is engaged in active discussions with the indonesian government regarding an amended cow. the revisions to the cow are expected to result in additional costs for our indonesian operations. we cannot predict whether we will be successful in reaching a satisfactory agreement on the terms of our long-term mining rights. it has been difficult to get firm or final commitments from the indonesian government. as a result, the outcome of these discussions remains uncertain. if we are unable to reach agreement with the government on our long-term rights, we may be required to reduce or defer investments in our underground development projects, which would materially and adversely affect future production and reserves. in addition, we cannot predict whether our applications for renewal of export permits, which are required at six-month intervals, will be granted on a timely basis or whether we will be permitted to export concentrate after august 8, 2016. recent media reports have indicated that the indonesia government is considering revisions to the 2009 mining law. it is unclear how any such changes would impact our current negotiations with the indonesian government related to the extension and amendment of the cow, smelter development, export permits and other significant issues. indonesia has long faced separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. several separatist groups have sought increased political independence for the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military. in addition, illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted for years to move them away from our facilities. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our indonesia operations. in 2009, a series of shooting incidents occurred within the pt-fi project area, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations. the shooting incidents have continued on a sporadic basis with the last incident occurring on january 1, 2015. during this time, there were 20 fatalities and 59 injuries to our employees, contractor employees, government security personnel and civilians. to date, no one person or group has claimed responsibility for the shootings. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt-fi continues to work with the indonesian government to address security issues. the investigation of these incidents is ongoing. we also continue to limit the use of the road leading to our mining and milling operations to secured convoys. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our indonesian operations. if other disruptive incidents occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict at this time. for further discussion of labor disruptions at pt-fi, refer to the operational risk factor "labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects." 54 table of contents we will not mine all of our ore reserves in indonesia before the initial term of our cow expires. the initial term of pt-fi's cow expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and our current mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current cow. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 21 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2015 , representing 27 percent of pt-fi's share of recoverable copper reserves and 38 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve our cow extensions. for further discussion, refer to the above risk factor "because our grasberg minerals district is a significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia." pt-fi's cow may be subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel. pt-fi's cow was entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. the cow may be subject to termination by the indonesian government if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. recently adopted indonesian laws and regulations conflict with the mining rights established under the cow. although the cow grants to pt-fi the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the cow, government agencies have sought and may continue to seek to impose additional restrictions on pt-fi that could affect exploration and operating requirements. for further discussion, refer to the above risk factor "because our grasberg minerals district is a significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties and security risks in indonesia." at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the indonesian government prior to may 1998 ( i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt-fi's cow, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the cow will not be challenged for political or other reasons. pt-fi's cow requires that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. accordingly, if a dispute arises under the cow, we face the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel, and if we prevail in such a dispute, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of an international arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. additionally, our operations may be materially and adversely affected while resolution of a dispute is pending, and such a dispute could be pending for years. the tenke fungurume (tenke) minerals district is located in the southeast region of the drc, and may be adversely affected by security risks and political, economic and social instability in the drc. since gaining independence in 1960, the drc has undergone outbreaks of violence, changes in national leadership and financial crises. the drc held its first democratic elections in 2006. president joseph kabila, elected in 2006 and currently serving his second five-year term, is not eligible under the drc constitution for reelection. the next presidential election is scheduled to be held in november 2016 but recent reports indicate that the government may delay the elections, which could lead to additional unrest. these factors heighten the risk of abrupt changes in the national policy toward foreign investors, which in turn could result in unilateral modification of concessions or contracts, increased taxation, denial of permits or permit renewals or expropriation of assets. as part of a review of all mining contracts by the ministry of mines (the ministry) in the drc, in february 2008, we received notification that the ministry wished to renegotiate several material provisions of tenke fungurume mining s.a.'s (tfm) mining contracts. in october 2010, the drc government concluded its review of tfm's existing mining contracts and confirmed that they were in good standing. in connection with the review, several amendments were made to tfm ' mining contracts and governing documents, and in march 2012, fcx's effective ownership in tfm was reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent. 55 table of contents political, economic, social and security risks in the drc are generally outside of our control and could adversely affect our business. these risks include legal and regulatory uncertainties with limited effective recourse through the courts; exposure to an environment of governmental corruption and bribery; unwarranted attempts to increase taxes or make claims for fees and penalties by governmental officials, including retroactive claims; administrative disputes; security risks resulting from political instability; risks associated with illegal mining activity on tenke's concession; and risk of loss because of civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism. in addition to ongoing conflict in the eastern region of the drc, there have been acts of violence in the southeast region of the drc where the tenke minerals district is located. the safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority, and tfm works cooperatively with government officials to address security issues; however, no assurance can be given that conflict or random acts of violence will not occur near or impact tenke's operations. accordingly, our tenke operations and future development activities at the tenke minerals district may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could interrupt tfm ' operations or future development activities and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. operational risks our mining and oil and gas operations are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. our mines are very large in scale and, by their nature are subject to significant operational risks, some of which are outside of our control, and many of which are not covered fully, or in some cases even partially, by insurance. these operational risks, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flow, include earthquakes, rainstorms, floods, and other natural disasters; equipment failures; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses of our underground mines or tailings impoundments; and lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates. the waste rock (including overburden) and tailings produced in our mining operations represent our largest volume of waste. managing the volume of waste rock and tailings presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks. we maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are effectively large dams that must be engineered, constructed and monitored to assure structural stability and avoid leakages or structural collapse. our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions, and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage at all of our operations. in indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors. the failure of tailings and other impoundments at any of our mining operations could cause severe property and environmental damage and loss of life, and we apply significant financial resources and both internal and external technical resources to the effective, safe management of all those facilities. the importance of careful design, management and monitoring of large impoundments was emphasized recently by large scale tailings dam failures at unaffiliated mines, which caused extensive property and environmental damage and resulted in the loss of life. our oil and gas operations are also subject to operating hazards, including well blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids and pipeline ruptures, as well as natural disasters such as earthquakes, mudslides and hurricanes. our operations in california, including transportation of oil by pipelines within the city and county of los angeles, are especially susceptible to damage from earthquakes and involve increased risks of personal injury, property damage and marketing interruptions because of the population density of southern california. our operations in the gulf of mexico (gom) and gulf coast region are particularly susceptible to interruption and damage from hurricanes. any of these operating hazards could cause personal injuries, fatalities, oil spills, discharge of hazardous substances into the air, soil, water and groundwater and other property or environmental damage, lost production and revenue, remediation and clean-up costs and liability for damages, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and may not be fully covered by our insurance. 56 table of contents labor unrest and activism could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as of december 31, 2015 , 48 percent of our global labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements and 4 percent of our global labor force was covered by agreements that expired in 2015 and are currently being negotiated or will expire during 2016, including the agreement covering employees at our el abra mine in chile. none of the employees of our oil and gas operations are represented by a union or covered by a collective labor agreement. labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. refer to items 1. and 2., "business and properties," for additional information regarding labor matters, and expiration dates of such agreements. we could also experience labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, or lockouts which could adversely affect our operations. for example, our pt-fi operations were affected by work stoppages in 2011 and during first-quarter 2012. in october 2014, a large percentage of grasberg open-pit operators did not report to their scheduled shifts, notwithstanding approval of resumption of operations by indonesian authorities upon completion of their investigation of a fatal haul truck accident that occurred near the grasberg open pit. significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations could significantly reduce our production and sales volumes, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our mining operations depend on the availability of secure water supplies. our mining operations require physical availability and secure legal rights to significant quantities of water for mining and ore processing activities, and related support facilities. most of our north and south america mining operations are in areas where competition for water supplies is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on many factors, including our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. in arizona, where our operations use both surface and ground water, we are a participant in two active general stream adjudications in which the arizona courts have been attempting, for over 40 years, to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for two of the state's largest river systems, which primarily affect our morenci, safford, sierrita and miami mines. the adjudications are addressing the state law claims of thousands of competing users, including us, as well as significant federal water claims that are potentially adverse to the state law claims of both surface water and groundwater users. groundwater is treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which historically allowed land owners to pump unlimited quantities of subsurface water, subject only to the requirement of putting it to "reasonable use." however, court decisions in one of the adjudications have concluded that underground water is often hydrologically connected to surface water so that it actually is surface water and is therefore subject to the arizona doctrine of prior appropriation, as a result of which it would be subject to the adjudication and potentially unavailable to groundwater pumpers in the absence of valid surface water claims, which historic groundwater pumpers typically do not have. any re-characterization of groundwater as surface water could affect the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a user of both groundwater and surface water in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings. water for our cerro verde operation in peru comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collects water primarily from seasonal precipitation. as a result of occasional drought conditions, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our cerro verde operations. in january 2016, the peruvian government declared a temporary state of emergency with respect to the water supply in the rio chili basin because of drought conditions. as a result, the cerro verde water rights from the rio chili were temporarily decreased by 18 percent beginning in february 2016. the peruvian government will continue to evaluate supply availability in the subsequent months dependent on monthly precipitation. water for our el abra mining operation in chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval, for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. the agreement to 57 table of contents pump from this aquifer is subject to continued monitoring of the aquifer level to ensure that environmentally sensitive areas are not impacted by our pumping. if impact occurs, we would have to reduce pumping to restore water levels which could affect production from el abra. although we typically have sufficient water for our indonesian operations, lower rainfall resulting from el ni o weather conditions in the second half of 2015 has impacted operations and may continue to impact operations in 2016. although each of our mining operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, as discussed above some supplies are subject to adjudication proceedings, the outcome of which we cannot predict, and the availability of additional supplies that may be required for potential future expansions is uncertain. the loss of a water right or currently available water supply could force us to curtail operations or force premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia and africa mining operations involve additional risks because they are located in very remote areas and, in indonesia, unusually difficult terrain. the grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. these conditions have required us to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. underground mining operations can be particularly dangerous, and in may 2013, a tragic accident, which resulted in 28 fatalities and 10 injuries, occurred at pt-fi when the rock structure above the underground ceiling of a training facility collapsed. pt-fi temporarily suspended mining and processing activities at the grasberg complex to conduct inspections and resumed open-pit mining and concentrating activities on june 24, 2013, and underground operations on july 9, 2013. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. the tenke minerals district is located in a remote area of the drc and is subject to challenges, such as severely limited infrastructure, including road, bridge and rail access that is in disrepair and receives minimal maintenance; limited and unreliable energy supply from antiquated equipment and from power distribution corridors that are not maintained; difficulties in attracting and retaining experienced personnel; security risks; and limited health care in an area plagued by disease and other potential endemic health issues, including malaria, cholera and hiv. additionally, because of limited rail access, we currently truck a significant portion of the production from the tenke minerals district approximately 1,900 miles to ports in south africa. the tenke minerals district and its future development may be substantially affected by factors beyond our control, which could adversely affect its contribution to our operating results and increase the cost of future development. we must continually replace reserves depleted by production, but our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our existing mineral and oil and natural gas reserves will be depleted over time by production from our operations. because our profits are derived from our mining and oil and gas operations, our ability to replenish our reserves is essential to our long-term success. our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of additional deposits or reservoirs that can be produced profitably. we may not be able to discover, enhance, develop or acquire reserves in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow our current reserve levels, which could negatively affect our business and prospects. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. consolidated capital expenditures are expected to approximate $3.4 billion for 2016, including $1.9 billion from the mining business (reflecting $1.4 billion for major projects primarily for underground development activities at grasberg and remaining costs for the cerro verde expansion and $0.5 billion for sustaining capital) and $1.5 billion for oil and gas operations. 58 table of contents there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects. the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, estimated capital and operating costs, and estimated future prices of the relevant commodity. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines, wells, or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction or drilling schedules can adversely affect project economics. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. the actual costs, production rates and economic returns of our development projects may differ materially from our estimates, which may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. operations in the deepwater gom present greater operating risks than operations in the shallower waters or onshore. in addition, our shallow water and onshore operations that target ultra-deep prospects involve greater risks and costs than conventional gom shelf and onshore gulf coast prospects. the deepwater gom presents significant challenges because of risks associated with geological complexity, water depth and higher drilling and development costs. for example, in april 2010, the deepwater horizon, an unaffiliated offshore drilling rig located in the deepwater gom, sank following an explosion and fire, resulting in fatalities and the discharge of substantial amounts of oil into the gom until mid-july 2010 when the flow of oil was finally stopped. the u.s. department of interior imposed a moratorium on deepwater drilling from may through october 2010 and also issued a series of rules and notices to lessees and operators imposing new and more stringent regulatory safety and performance requirements and permitting procedures for new wells to be drilled in the deepwater gom, all of which significantly and adversely disrupted oil and gas exploration activities in the gom and resulted in increased costs. the deepwater gom also lacks the infrastructure present in shallower waters, which can result in significant delays in obtaining or maintaining production. as a result, deepwater operations may require significant time between a discovery and marketability, thereby increasing the financial risk of these operations. our operations are subject to extensive regulations, some of which require permits and other approvals. these regulations increase our costs and in some circumstances may delay or suspend our operations. our operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that are subject to change and to changing interpretation by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with broad supervisory authority. as a natural resource company, compliance with environmental legal requirements is an integral and costly part of our business. for additional information, see "environmental risks." we are also subject to extensive regulation of worker health and safety, including the requirements of the u.s. occupational safety and health act and similar laws of other jurisdictions. in the u.s., the operation of our mines is subject to regulation by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. msha inspects our mines on a regular basis and issues citations and orders when it believes a violation has occurred. if such inspections result in an alleged violation, we may be subject to fines and penalties and, in instances of alleged significant violations, our mining operations could be subject to temporary or extended closures. our oil and gas operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations that require, among other things, permits for the drilling and operation of wells and bonding and insurance to drill, operate and plug and abandon wells, and that regulate the safety of our pipelines. our u.s. offshore operations in federal waters are subject to broad regulation by the boem/bsee, which among other things must issue permits in connection with our exploration, drilling, development and production plans. under certain circumstances boem/bsee may impose penalties and may suspend or terminate any of our operations on federal leases. many other governmental bodies regulate our operations, and our failure to comply with these legal requirements can result in substantial penalties. in addition, new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations by courts or regulatory authorities occur regularly, but are difficult to predict. any such variations could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. our business may be adversely affected by information technology disruptions. cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency, evolving in nature and include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the 59 table of contents corruption of data. we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks. however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. environmental risks our operations are subject to complex, evolving and increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations. compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain existing operations or expansion opportunities. our operations, both in the u.s. and internationally, are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations governing the generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances; solid waste disposal; air emissions; wastewater discharges; remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, including oil spill cleanup; mine closures and reclamation; well plug and abandonment requirements; protection of endangered and protected species and designation of critical habitats; and other related matters. in addition, we must obtain regulatory permits and approvals to start, continue and expand operations. our miami, arizona smelter processes 44 percent of the aggregate copper concentrate produced by our north america copper mines. epa regulations require us to invest in new pollution control equipment to reduce sulfur dioxide (so 2 ) to meet both regional haze requirements and to allow the state of arizona to demonstrate compliance with epa's so 2 ambient air quality standards. the deadline for the smelter to install the so 2 pollution control equipment to comply with the regional haze rules is january 1, 2018. the arizona rules for complying with the national ambient air quality standards are still being developed by state regulators and are subject to epa approval, and it is not clear when they will become effective, but it is possible that they will be effective prior to january 1, 2018. we expect capital expenditures for this project (to meet both regulatory requirements) to total approximately $250 million, and we expect those expenditures to be made through 2018. if these expenditures are delayed or deferred for technical, financial or any other reasons, we may be forced to curtail production at the miami smelter, which would require us to export concentrate rather than process it ourselves and to purchase sulphuric acid that would otherwise be generated during the smelting process, which would result in increased production costs. laws such as cercla and similar state laws may expose us to joint and several liability for environmental damages caused by previous owners or operators of properties we acquired or are currently operating or at sites where we sent materials for processing, recycling or disposal. as discussed in more detail in the next risk factor, we have substantial obligations for environmental remediation on mining properties previously owned or operated by freeport minerals corporation (fmc) and certain of its affiliates. some of our onshore california oil and gas fields have been in operation for more than 100 years, and legal requirements may require substantial expenditures to remediate the properties or to otherwise comply with these requirements. noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in material penalties or other liabilities. in addition, compliance with these laws may from time to time result in delays in or changes to our development or expansion plans. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. new or revised environmental regulatory requirements are frequently proposed, many of which result in substantially increased costs for our business, including those regarding financial assurance in the financial risk factor above. in addition, in 2015, the epa promulgated rules that could reclassify certain mineral processing materials as "hazardous waste" under the federal resource conservation and recovery act and subject the industry to significant new and costly waste management requirements. these rules are currently being challenged by multiple parties in court; however, if the legal challenges are unsuccessful, the reclassification of certain mineral processing materials as hazardous waste' could materially increase costs at our u.s. copper and molybdenum processing facilities. the epa also recently adopted rules that bring remote tributaries into the regulatory definition of waters of the united states that are protected by the clean water act, thereby imposing significant additional restrictions on waterway discharges and land uses, and is in many ways aggressively attempting to expand its regulatory authority over air quality, water quality and solid wastes, among other things. regulations are also being considered at various governmental levels to increase federal financial responsibility requirements both for mine closure and reclamation and for oil and gas decommissioning, and to increase regulation of or prohibit hydraulic fracturing. 60 table of contents adoption of these or similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs, threaten certain operating activities and constrain our expansion opportunities. in february 2016, the department of the interior's fish &amp; wildlife service (fws) adopted final rules that broaden the regulatory definitions of "critical habitat" and "destruction or adverse modification," both of which are integral to the fws's implementation of the endangered species act, which protects federally-listed endangered and threatened species. the new rules increase fws's discretion to limit uses of land and water courses that may become suitable habitat for listed species in the future, or that are occasionally used by protected species. the new rules may limit the ability of landowners, including us, to obtain federal permits or authorizations needed for expansion of our operations, and may also affect our ability to obtain, retain or deliver water to some operations. during 2015 , we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations of $421 million , compared with $405 million in 2014 and $595 million in 2013 . for 2016 , we expect to incur approximately $495 million of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation and plug and abandonment activities, the settlement of environmental matters and the rate at which actual spending occurs on continuing matters. we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on mining properties that have not been operated in many years. fmc and its subsidiaries, and many of their affiliates and predecessor companies have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies fully understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for remediating hazardous substances released into the environment from properties owned or operated by them as well as properties where they arranged for disposal of such substances, irrespective of when the release to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often asserted on a joint and several basis with other prior and subsequent owners, operators and arrangers, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is, and each arranger may be, held fully responsible for the remediation, although in many cases some or all of the other responsible parties no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are potentially responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2015 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects (including damaged natural resource claims) in 26 u.s. states. in addition, fmc and certain affiliates and predecessor companies were parties to agreements relating to the transfer of businesses or properties, which contained indemnification provisions relating to environmental matters, and which from time to time become the source of claims against us. at december 31, 2015 , we had $1.2 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributable to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of certain operating facilities. our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases occurred many decades ago; our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. 61 table of contents significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. in addition, remediation standards imposed by the epa and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time and may become even more stringent in the future. imposition of more stringent remediation standards poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at our active remediation sites and at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. refer to note 12 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesian government, uses the unnavigable river system in the highlands near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. in addition, overburden stockpiles are subject to erosion caused by the large amounts of rainfall, with the eroded stockpile material eventually being deposited in the lowlands tailings management area; this additional material, while predicted in our environmental studies, could influence the deposition of finer tailings material in the estuary. from time to time, certain indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than the river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. many scientists believe that emissions from the combustion of carbon-based fuels contribute to greenhouse effects and, therefore, contribute to climate change. carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, and our revenues include sales of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, and other carbon-based energy products. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. as a result of the paris agreement reached during the 21 st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in 2015, a number of governments have pledged "nationally determined contributions" to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in the u.s., the epa has finalized regulations governing greenhouse gas emissions from new, modified, and existing power plants. while these rules are being challenged in court, increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may increase our costs and may also affect the demand for the oil and gas we produce. 62 table of contents other risks our holding company structure may impact our ability to service debt and our stockholders ' ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. cash at our international operations is also typically subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us or repay loans to us, to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are parties to credit agreements that restrict their ability to make distributions or loan repayments to us if such subsidiary is in default under such agreements, to repay any subordinated loan we may make to such subsidiary unless specified conditions are met, or to transfer substantially all of the assets of such subsidiary without the consent of the lenders. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize the board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the board. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders.risk factors 38 "risk factors." copper copper is an internationally traded commodity, and its prices are determined by the major metals exchanges the london metal exchange (lme), new york mercantile exchange (nymex) and shanghai futures exchange. prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide balance of copper supply and demand, and can be volatile and cyclical. during 2016 , the lme spot copper price averaged $2.21 per pound, ranging from a low of $1.96 per pound to a high of $2.69 per pound, and was $2.50 per pound at december 31, 2016 . in general, demand for copper reflects the rate of underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and construction. according to wood mackenzie, a widely followed independent metals market consultant, copper's end-use markets (and their estimated shares of total consumption) are construction (31 percent), consumer products (24 percent), electrical applications (24 percent), transportation (11 percent) and industrial machinery (10 percent). gold gold is used for jewelry, coinage and bullion as well as various industrial and electronic applications. gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world. benchmark prices are generally based on london bullion market association (london) pm quotations. during 2016 , the london pm gold price averaged $1,250 per ounce, ranging from a low of $1,077 per ounce to a high of $1,366 per ounce, and was $1,159 per ounce at december 31, 2016 . molybdenum molybdenum is a key alloying element in steel and the raw material for several chemical-grade products used in catalysts, lubrication, smoke suppression, corrosion inhibition and pigmentation. molybdenum, as a high-purity metal, is also used in electronics such as flat-panel displays and in super alloys used in aerospace. reference prices for molybdenum are available in several publications, including metals week, cru report and metal bulletin . during 2016 , the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $6.47 per pound, ranging from a low of $5.15 per pound to a high of $8.47 per pound, and was $6.74 per pound at december 31, 2016 . products and sales fcx's consolidated revenues for 2016 primarily included sales of copper ( 70 percent ), gold ( 10 percent ), oil ( 9 percent ) and molybdenum ( 4 percent ). oil and gas sales to phillips 66 company represented 12 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2014 ; no other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in any of the past three years. refer to note 16 for a summary of our consolidated revenues and operating income (loss) by business segment and geographic area. copper products we are one of the world's leading producers of copper concentrate, cathode and continuous cast copper rod. during 2016 , 58 percent of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, 21 percent as cathode and 21 percent as rod from north america operations. the copper ore from our mines is generally processed either by smelting and refining or by solution extraction and electrowinning (sx/ew). before being subject to the smelting and refining process, ore is crushed and treated to produce a copper concentrate with copper content of approximately 20 to 30 percent. copper concentrate is then smelted ( i.e. , subjected to extreme heat) to produce copper anode, which weighs between 800 and 900 pounds and has an average copper content of 99.5 percent. the anode is further treated by electrolytic refining to produce copper cathode, which weighs between 100 and 350 pounds and has an average copper content of 99.99 percent. for ore subject to the sx/ew process, copper is extracted from the ore by dissolving it with a weak sulphuric acid solution. the copper content of the solution is increased in two additional solution-extraction stages, and then the copper-bearing solution undergoes an electrowinning process to produce cathode that is, on average, 99.99 percent copper. our copper cathode is used as the raw material input for copper rod, brass mill products and for other uses. 4 table of contents copper concentrate . we produce copper concentrate at six of our mines. in north america, copper concentrate is produced at the morenci, bagdad, sierrita and chino mines, and a significant portion is shipped to our miami smelter in arizona. copper concentrate is also produced at the cerro verde mine in peru and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. copper cathode . we produce copper cathode at our electrolytic refinery located in el paso, texas, and at nine of our mines. sx/ew cathode is produced from the morenci, bagdad, safford, sierrita, miami, chino and tyrone mines in north america, and from the cerro verde and el abra mines in south america . copper cathode is also produced at atlantic copper (our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in spain) and pt smelting (pt-fi's 25-percent-owned copper smelter and refinery in indonesia). refer to "mining operations - smelting facilities and other mining properties" for further discussion of atlantic copper and pt smelting. continuous cast copper rod . we manufacture continuous cast copper rod at our facilities in el paso, texas; norwich, connecticut; and miami, arizona, primarily using copper cathode produced at our north america copper mines. copper sales north america . the majority of the copper produced at our north america copper mines and refined in our el paso, texas, refinery is consumed at our rod plants. the remainder of our north america copper production is sold in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate under u.s. dollar-denominated annual contracts. cathode and rod contract prices are generally based on the prevailing commodity exchange inc. (comex - a division of nymex) monthly average spot price for the month of shipment and include a premium. generally, copper rod is sold to wire and cable manufacturers, while cathode is sold to rod, brass or tube fabricators. during 2016 , 12 percent of our north america mines' copper concentrate sales volumes were shipped to atlantic copper. south america . production from our south america mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under u.s. dollar-denominated, annual and multi-year contracts. during 2016 , our south america mines sold approximately 75 percent of their copper production in concentrate and 25 percent as cathode. during 2016, four percent of our south america mines' copper concentrate sales volumes were shipped to atlantic copper. substantially all of south america's copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices. revenues from south america's concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties and treatment charges ( i.e., fees paid to smelters that are generally negotiated annually). in addition, because a portion of the metals contained in copper concentrate is unrecoverable from the smelting process, revenues from south america's concentrate sales are also recorded net of allowances for unrecoverable metals, which are a negotiated term of the contracts and vary by customer. indonesia . pt-fi sells its production in the form of copper concentrate, which contains significant quantities of gold and silver, under u.s. dollar-denominated, long-term contracts. pt-fi also sells a small amount of copper concentrate in the spot market. following is a summary of pt-fi's aggregate percentage concentrate sales to third parties, pt smelting and atlantic copper for the years ended december 31: 2016 2015 2014 third parties 56 % 61 % 36 % pt smelting 42 37 58 atlantic copper 2 2 6 100 % 100 % 100 % substantially all of pt-fi's concentrate sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices. revenues from pt-fi's concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties, export duties, treatment charges and allowances for unrecoverable metals. gold products and sales we produce gold mostly from the grasberg minerals district. gold is primarily sold as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes, which are a product of the smelting and refining process at atlantic copper. gold generally is priced at the average london price for a specified month near the month of shipment. revenues from gold sold 5 table of contents as a component of our copper concentrate are recorded net of treatment and refining charges. revenues from gold sold in slimes are recorded net of refining charges. molybdenum products and sales we are the world's largest producer of molybdenum and molybdenum-based chemicals. in addition to production from the henderson and climax molybdenum mines, we produce molybdenum concentrate at certain of the north america copper mines and the cerro verde copper mine in peru. the majority of our molybdenum concentrate is processed in our own conversion facilities. during 2016 , our molybdenum sales were generally priced based on the average published metals week price for the month prior to the month of shipment. we have incorporated changes in the commercial pricing structure for our molybdenum-based chemical products to enable continuation of chemical-grade production. labor matters at december 31, 2016 , we employed approximately 30,000 people (12,200 in indonesia, 11,000 in north america, 5,400 in south america and 1,400 in europe and other locations). we also had contractors that employ personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 21,300 at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia, 3,700 at our south america mining operations, 3,700 in north america and 400 in europe and other locations. employees represented by unions at december 31, 2016 , are listed below, with the number of employees represented and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements: location number of unions number of union- represented employees expiration date pt-fi indonesia 2 9,456 september 2017 cerro verde peru 1 3,023 august 2018 el abra chile 2 583 april 2020 atlantic copper spain 2 422 december 2015 a kokkola - finland 3 409 november 2017 rotterdam the netherlands 1 61 september 2018 stowmarket united kingdom 1 39 may 2017 a. the collective labor agreement between atlantic copper and its workers' unions expired in december 2015, but has been extended through december 2017 by mutual agreement from both parties in accordance with spanish law. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further information on labor matters. environmental and reclamation matters the cost of complying with environmental laws is fundamental to and a substantial cost of our business. for information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to item 1a. risk factors and notes 1 and 12 . competition the top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately half of total worldwide mined copper production. we currently rank second among those producers, with approximately nine percent of estimated total worldwide mined copper production. our competitive position is based on the size, quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. we have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies, and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. the metals markets are cyclical, and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce, and to manage our costs. 6 table of contents mining operations following are maps and descriptions of our mining operations in north america (including both copper and molybdenum operations), south america and indonesia. north america in the u.s., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, sx/ew facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is generally owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. certain portions of our bagdad, sierrita, miami, chino, tyrone, henderson and climax operations are located on government-owned land and are operated under a mine plan of operations or other use permit. various federal and state permits or leases on government land are held for purposes incidental to mine operations. in response to market conditions, beginning in the second half of 2015, we revised operating plans for our north america copper mines to reduce operating and capital costs and adjust production to reflect market conditions. in addition, we operated the henderson molybdenum mine at reduced rates, resulting in an approximate 65 percent reduction in its annual production volumes. these operating plans will continue to be reviewed and additional adjustments may be made as market conditions warrant. morenci we own a 72 percent undivided interest in morenci, with the remaining 28 percent owned by sumitomo metal mining arizona, inc. (15 percent) and smm morenci, inc. (13 percent). each partner takes in kind its share of morenci's production. morenci is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. morenci is located in greenlee county, arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of safford on u.s. highway 191. the site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur. the morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide. the morenci operation consists of two concentrators capable of milling 115,000 metric tons of ore per day, which produce copper and molybdenum concentrate; a 68,000 metric ton-per-day, crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a low-grade run-of-mine (rom) leaching system; four sx plants; and three ew tank houses that produce copper cathode. total ew tank house capacity is approximately 900 million pounds of copper per year. during second-quarter 2015, morenci's concentrate leach, direct-electrowinning facility (which was placed on care-and-maintenance status in early 2009) resumed operation. morenci's available mining fleet consists of one hundred and eleven 236-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 12 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 57 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 815,000 metric tons of material per day. the morenci mill expansion project, which achieved full rates in second-quarter 2015, expanded mill capacity from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day, which results in incremental annual production of approximately 225 million pounds of copper and an improvement in morenci's cost structure. 7 table of contents over the next five years, morenci's copper production, including our joint venture partner share, is expected to average approximately one billion pounds per year. morenci's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 , 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 , and 812 million pounds of copper and less than 1 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 . morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 840 meters above sea level. the morenci operation encompasses approximately 68,310 acres, comprising 51,170 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 14,420 acres of unpatented mining claims and 2,720 acres of land held by state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-way. the morenci operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility in deming, new mexico. although we believe the morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the morenci operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. bagdad our wholly owned bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in yavapai county in west-central arizona. it is approximately 60 miles west of prescott and 100 miles northwest of phoenix. the property can be reached by arizona highway 96, which ends at the town of bagdad. the closest railroad is at hillside, arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on arizona highway 96. the open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings. the bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite. the bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, an sx/ew plant that can produce up to 32 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure-leach plant to process molybdenum concentrate. the available mining fleet consists of thirty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 250,000 metric tons of material per day. bagdad's production totaled 177 million pounds of copper and 8 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 , 210 million pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 , and 237 million pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 . bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 310 meters above sea level. the 8 table of contents bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,750 acres, comprising 21,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 600 acres of unpatented mining claims. bagdad receives electrical power from arizona public service company. we believe the bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations. safford our wholly owned safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in graham county, arizona, approximately 8 miles north of the town of safford and 170 miles east of phoenix. the site is accessible by paved county road off u.s. highway 70. the safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite. the property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathode. the operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. the crushed ore is delivered to leach pads by a series of overland and portable conveyors. leach solutions feed a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. a sulfur burner plant is also in operation at safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in sx/ew operations. the available mining fleet consists of sixteen 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 225,000 metric tons of material per day. safford's copper production totaled 230 million pounds in 2016 , 202 million pounds in 2015 and 139 million pounds in 2014 . safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. the safford operation encompasses approximately 25,000 acres, comprising 21,000 acres of patented lands, 3,950 acres of unpatented lands and 50 acres of land held by federal permit. the safford operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility. although we believe the safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the safford operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 9 table of contents sierrita our wholly owned sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in pima county, arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of tucson and 7 miles west of the town of green valley and interstate highway 19. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. the sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate. sierrita also produces copper from a rom oxide-leaching system. cathode copper is plated at the twin buttes ew facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. the sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. the molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. the available mining fleet consists of twenty-five 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day. sierrita's production totaled 162 million pounds of copper and 14 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 , 189 million pounds of copper and 21 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 , and 195 million pounds of copper and 24 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 . sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. the sierrita operation, including the adjacent twin buttes site (refer to "smelting facilities and other mining properties" for further discussion), encompasses approximately 37,650 acres, comprising 13,300 acres of patented mining claims and 24,350 acres of split-estate lands. sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the tucson electric power company. although we believe the sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the sierrita operation. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 10 table of contents miami our wholly owned miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in gila county, arizona, approximately 90 miles east of phoenix and 6 miles west of the city of globe on u.s. highway 60. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. since about 1915, the miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. the design capacity of the sx/ew plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. during 2015, miami's operating plans were revised to suspend mining operations and produce copper through leaching material already placed on stockpiles. miami's copper production totaled 25 million pounds in 2016 , 43 million pounds in 2015 and 57 million pounds in 2014 . miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the pit bottom has an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. the miami operation encompasses approximately 9,100 acres, comprising 8,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 350 acres of unpatented mining claims. miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the salt river project and natural gas through long-term contracts with el paso natural gas as the transporter. we believe the miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations. chino and tyrone chino our wholly owned chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in grant county, new mexico, approximately 15 miles east of the town of silver city off of state highway 180. the mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. chino has been in operation since 1910. 11 table of contents the chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. there is leachable oxide, secondary sulfide and millable primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides. the chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, and a 150 million pound-per-year sx/ew plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by rom leaching. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 42 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 235,000 metric tons of material per day. chino's copper production totaled 308 million pounds in 2016 , 314 million pounds in 2015 and 250 million pounds in 2014 . chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,500 meters above sea level. the chino operation encompasses approximately 118,600 acres, comprising 113,200 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 5,400 acres of unpatented mining claims. chino receives power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations. tyrone our wholly owned tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. it is located in grant county, new mexico, approximately 10 miles south of silver city, new mexico, along state highway 90. the site is accessible by paved road and by rail. the tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite, with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla. copper processing facilities consist of a sx/ew operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathode per year. the available mining fleet consists of seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by one shovel with a bucket size of 47 cubic meters, which is capable of moving an average of 49,000 metric tons of material per day. tyrone's copper production totaled 76 million pounds in 2016 , 84 million pounds in 2015 and 94 million pounds in 2014 . tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. the tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 16,450 acres of unpatented mining claims. tyrone receives electrical power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe the tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. 12 table of contents henderson and climax henderson our wholly owned henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of denver, colorado, off u.s. highway 40. nearby communities include the towns of empire, georgetown and idaho springs. the henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from colorado state highway 9. the henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the continental divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. the tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill. the henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 35 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our fort madison, iowa, processing facility. the available underground mining equipment fleet consists of seventeen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (lhd) units and seven 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles. in response to market conditions, the henderson molybdenum mine operated at reduced rates during 2016. henderson's molybdenum production totaled 10 million pounds in 2016 , 25 million pounds in 2015 and 30 million pounds in 2014 . the henderson mine is located in a mountainous region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. the main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,900 acres, comprising 11,850 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and a 50-acre easement with the u.s. forest service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor. henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. climax our wholly owned climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of leadville, colorado, off colorado state highway 91 at the top of fremont pass. the mine is accessible by paved roads . the climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the climax open-pit mine includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. climax has the capacity to produce approximately 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the available mining fleet consists of nine 177-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two hydraulic shovels with bucket sizes of 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 90,000 metric tons of material per day. 13 table of contents molybdenum production from climax totaled 16 million pounds in 2016 , 23 million pounds in 2015 and 21 million pounds in 2014 . the climax mine is located in a mountainous region. the highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the operations encompass approximately 14,350 acres, consisting primarily of patented mining claims and other fee lands. climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with andarko energy and bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. south america at our operations in south america, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. the claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements. cerro verde we have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in cerro verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by smm cerro verde netherlands b.v. (21.0 percent), compa ia de minas buenaventura s.a.a. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the lima stock exchange (5.86 percent). cerro verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of arequipa, peru. the site is accessible by paved highway. a majority of cerro verde's copper cathode production is sold locally, and the remaining copper cathode and concentrate production are transported approximately 70 miles by truck and by rail to the port of matarani for shipment to international markets. the cerro verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper pitch. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. cerro verde's operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 360,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator and sx/ew leaching facilities. leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a rom leach system. this sx/ew leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. the cerro verde expansion project, which commenced operations in september 2015, achieved capacity operating rates during first-quarter 2016. cerro verde's expanded operations benefit from its large-scale, long-lived reserves and cost efficiencies. the project expanded the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day. 14 table of contents the available fleet consists of eleven 290-metric ton haul trucks and ninety 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by nine electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 57 cubic meters and two hydraulic shovels with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters. this fleet is capable of moving an average of approximately 735,000 metric tons of material per day. cerro verde's production totaled 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 21 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 , 545 million pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 , and 500 million pounds of copper and 11 million pounds of molybdenum in 2014 . cerro verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 2,750 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,570 meters above sea level. the peruvian general mining law and cerro verde's mining stability agreement grant the surface rights of mining concessions located on government land. additional government land if obtained prior to 1997, must be leased or purchased. cerro verde has a mining concession covering approximately 157,000 acres, including 14,500 acres rented from the regional government of arequipa, plus 71 acres of owned property, and 80 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area. cerro verde receives electrical power under long-term contracts with kallpa generaci n sa, electroperu and engie energia peru s.a. water for our cerro verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. in 2015, cerro verde completed the construction of a wastewater treatment plant that intercepts raw sewage that would otherwise be discharged into the rio chili and processes it for both use at the cerro verde mine and for recharge of treated water into the rio chili. we believe the cerro verde operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. el abra we own a 51 percent interest in el abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise corporaci n nacional del cobre de chile (codelco). el abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of calama in chile's el loa province, region ii. the site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. the el abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. the predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. there is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization as chalcocite. the oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. there are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite. the el abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized rom leaching operation. the available fleet consists of thirty-six 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 34 to 63 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 214,000 metric tons of material per day. 15 table of contents in response to market conditions, in the second half of 2015, we adjusted operations at el abra to reduce mining and stacking rates by approximately 50 percent to achieve lower operating and labor costs, defer capital expenditures and extend the life of the existing operations. el abra's copper production totaled 220 million pounds in 2016 , 324 million pounds in 2015 and 367 million pounds in 2014 . we continue to evaluate a potential large-scale milling operation at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. exploration results in recent years at el abra indicate a significant sulfide resource, which could potentially support a major mill project. future investments will be dependent on technical studies, economic factors and market conditions. el abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,430 meters above sea level. el abra controls a total of approximately 151,300 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. in addition, el abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the salar de ascot n aquifer. el abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with engie energia chile s.a. water for our el abra processing operations comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. we believe el abra has sufficient water rights and regulatory approvals to support current operations. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors. indonesia ownership . pt-fi is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the republic of indonesia. we directly own 81.28 percent of the outstanding common stock of pt-fi and indirectly own 9.36 percent through our wholly owned subsidiary, pt indocopper investama; the indonesian government owns the remaining 9.36 percent. pt-fi has an unincorporated joint venture with rio tinto, under which rio tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2022 in block a of pt-fi's contract of work (cow), and after 2022, a 40 percent interest in all production from block a. the block a area is where all of pt-fi's proven and probable mineral reserves and all of its current mining operations are located. refer to note 3 for further discussion of the joint venture agreement. 16 table of contents contract of work . pt-fi conducts its current exploration and mining operations in indonesia through a cow with the indonesian government. the cow governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 foreign capital investment law, which expresses indonesia's foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. specifically, the cow provides that the indonesian government will not nationalize or expropriate pt-fi's mining operations. any disputes regarding the provisions of the cow are subject to international arbitration. pt-fi's original cow was entered into in 1967 and was replaced by the current cow in 1991. the initial term of the current cow expires in 2021, but the cow explicitly provides that it can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. the cow allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre block a area. under the cow, pt-fi also conducts exploration activities in the block b area currently covering 502,000 acres. under the cow, pt-fi pays royalties on copper, gold and silver in the concentrate it sells (refer to note 13 for further discussion of the royalty rates). a large part of the mineral royalties under indonesian government regulations is designated to the provinces from which the minerals are extracted. in connection with its fourth concentrator mill expansion completed in 1998, pt-fi agreed to pay the indonesian government additional royalties, which were not required by the cow, to provide further support to the local governments and to the people of the indonesian province of papua. pt-fi's royalties totaled $131 million in 2016 , $114 million in 2015 and $115 million in 2014 . regulatory matters . pt-fi continues to seek approval from indonesian authorities for the export of its copper concentrate, consistent with its rights under the cow. in january 2014, the indonesian government published regulations that among other things imposed a progressive export duty on copper concentrate and restricts concentrate exports after january 12, 2017. despite pt-fi's rights under its cow to export concentrate without the payment of duties, pt-fi was unable to obtain administrative approval for exports and operated at approximately half of its capacity from mid-january 2014 through july 2014. in july 2014, pt-fi and the indonesian government entered into a memorandum of understanding (mou) in which, subject to concluding an agreement to extend pt-fi's operations beyond 2021 on acceptable terms, pt-fi agreed to construct new smelter capacity in indonesia and to divest an additional 20.64 percent interest in pt-fi at fair market value. under the mou, pt-fi provided a $115 million assurance bond to support its commitment for smelter development, agreed to increase royalty rates and agreed to pay export duties until certain smelter development milestones were met. the mou also anticipated an amendment of the cow within six months to address other matters; however, no terms of the cow other than those relating to the smelter bond, increased royalties and export duties were changed. in january 2015, the mou was extended to july 25, 2015, and it expired on that date. the indonesian government has continued to impose the increased royalty rates, export duties and smelter assurance bond. pt-fi paid export duties totaling $95 million in 2016 , $109 million in 2015 and $ 77 million in 2014 . in october 2015, the indonesian government provided a letter of assurance to pt-fi indicating that it would revise regulations allowing it to approve the extension of pt-fi's operations beyond 2021, and provide the same rights and the same level of legal and fiscal certainty provided under the current cow. in january and february 2017, the indonesian government issued new regulations to address exports of unrefined metals, including copper concentrate and anode slimes, and other matters related to the mining sector. the new regulations permit the continuation of copper concentrate exports for a five-year period through january 2022, subject to various conditions, including conversion from a contract of work to a special operating license (known as an iupk, which provides virtually none of the protections of a contract of work), commitment to completion of smelter construction in five years and payment of export duties to be determined by the ministry of finance. in addition, the new regulations enable application for extension of operating rights five years before expiration of the iupk and require foreign iupk holders to divest 51 percent to indonesian interests no later than the tenth year of production. export licenses would be valid for one-year periods, subject to review every six months, depending on smelter construction progress. 17 table of contents the january 2017 regulations permit the export of anode slimes, which is necessary for pt smelting (ptfi's 25-percent-owned copper smelter and refinery located in gresik, indonesia) to continue operating. pt smelting is seeking to renew its anode slimes export license; however, we cannot predict when pt smelting's anode slimes export license may be renewed. in addition, a labor strike at pt smelting has resulted in a shutdown of its operations since january 19, 2017. although pt-fi is taking near-term actions to reduce production to match available processing capacity at pt smelting, or approximately 40 percent of pt-fi's concentrate production capacity, on february 10, 2017, pt-fi was forced to suspend production as a result of limited storage capacity at pt-fi and pt smelting. pt smelting has indicated that it expects to resume operations in march 2017. delays in pt smelting obtaining its anode slimes export license or restarting operations could further impact pt-fi's operations. following the issuance of the january and february 2017 regulations and discussions with the government, pt-fi advised the indonesian government that it was prepared to convert its cow to an iupk, subject to obtaining an investment stability agreement providing equivalent rights with the same level of legal and fiscal certainty enumerated under its cow, and provided that the cow would remain in effect until it is replaced by a mutually satisfactory alternative. pt-fi also committed to commence construction of a new smelter during a five-year timeframe after approval of the extension of its long-term operating rights. under its cow, pt-fi has specified rights to export copper concentrate without restriction or payment of export duties. pt-fi has requested that concentrate exports be permitted without the imposition of export duties while the new license and stability agreement are negotiated. the indonesia government has indicated that in order to export its concentrate production, pt-fi would be required to immediately convert to an iupk, forgo its current rights to fiscal and legal certainty and commit to a new smelter prior to completing a long-term investment stability agreement. pt-fi has advised the indonesian government that attempts to enforce the new regulations on pt-fi violates its cow and that it is unwilling to terminate its cow unless replaced by a mutually acceptable form of agreement providing fiscal and legal assurances to support its long-term investment plans in papua, indonesia. as of february 24, 2017 , pt-fi has not obtained approval to export concentrate and production remains suspended. pt-fi is taking near-term actions to reduce production to match available processing capacity at pt smelting, or approximately 40 percent of pt-fi's concentrate production capacity (assuming that pt smelting's export license is approved and its operations are resumed in march 2017). pt-fi has begun to significantly adjust its cost structure, reduce its workforce and spending with local suppliers, and suspend investments in its underground development projects and new smelter. on february 17, 2017, pursuant to the cow's dispute resolution provisions, pt-fi provided formal notice to the indonesian government of an impending dispute listing the government's breaches and violations of the cow, which are described in item 1a. "risk factors." we cannot predict whether or when pt-fi will be able to resume exporting copper concentrate. for each month of delay in obtaining approval to export, pt-fi's share of production is projected to be reduced by approximately 70 million pounds of copper and 70 thousand ounces of gold. the inability of either pt-fi to export copper concentrate, or pt smelting to export anode slimes or restart operations, for any extended period of time would lead to the continued suspension of production in indonesia. we also cannot predict whether pt-fi will be successful in reaching a satisfactory agreement on the terms of pt-fi's long-term mining rights. if pt-fi is unable to reach agreement with the indonesian government on its long-term mining rights, we may be required to reduce or defer investments in underground development projects. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion of risks associated with operations in indonesia. grasberg minerals district . pt-fi operates in the remote highlands of the sudirman mountain range in the province of papua, indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of new guinea. we and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in block a since 1967. the grasberg minerals district has three operating mines, the grasberg open pit, the deep ore zone (doz) underground mine and the big gossan underground mine where operations restarted in fourth-quarter 2016. in addition, in september 2015, pt-fi initiated pre-commercial production at the deep mill level zone (dmlz) underground mine. pt-fi also has several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district related to the development of the large-scale, long-lived, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the grasberg open pit, including the grasberg block cave underground mine (refer to md&amp;a for further discussion). in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to produce large-scale quantities of copper and gold 18 table of contents following the transition from the grasberg open pit. our current plans and mineral reserves at pt-fi assume that the cow will be extended beyond 2021 (refer to "regulatory matters" above for discussion of matters that could impact pt-fi's development plans). pt-fi's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.1 million ounces of gold in 2016 , 752 million pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold in 2015 and 651 million pounds of copper and 1.1 million ounces of gold in 2014 . our principal source of power for all our indonesian operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. a combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. our indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. grasberg open pit pt-fi began open-pit mining of the grasberg ore body in 1990 and is currently mining the final phase of the grasberg open pit, which contains high copper and gold ore grades. pt-fi expects to mine high-grade ore over the next several quarters prior to transitioning to the grasberg block cave underground mine during 2018. additionally, production from the ore stockpiles, which are located outside of the pit limits, is expected to continue until early 2019. production in the open pit is currently at the 3,310- to 3,520-meter elevation level and totaled 44 million metric tons of ore in 2016 , which provided 72 percent of pt-fi's 2016 mill feed. the current open-pit equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. the larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 132 haul trucks with payloads ranging from 218 to 276 metric tons and 16 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 42 cubic meters, which mined an average of 180,500 metric tons of material per day in 2016 , 250,400 metric tons per day in 2015 and 298,400 metric tons per day in 2014 . crushing and conveying systems are integral to the grasberg mine and provide the capacity to transport more than 250,000 metric tons of ore per day. during 2016 , grasberg's crushing and conveying systems delivered an average of 121,000 metric tons of ore per day to the mill. from january 2016 to may 2016, the grasberg overburden handling system delivered 1.9 million metric tons of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. the remaining overburden moved by haul trucks averaged 16,100 metric tons per day during 2016. ore milled from the grasberg open pit averaged 119,700 metric tons per day in 2016 , 115,900 metric tons per day in 2015 and 69,100 metric tons per day in 2014 . doz underground mine the doz ore body lies vertically below the now depleted intermediate ore zone. pt-fi began production from the doz ore body in 1989 using open-stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the grasberg open pit. production resumed in september 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level. the doz is a mature block-cave mine that previously operated at 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. current operating rates from the doz underground mine are driven by the value of the incremental doz ore grade compared to the ore from the grasberg open pit and ore grade material from the development of the dmlz and grasberg block cave underground mines. ore milled from the doz underground mine averaged 38,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2016, 43,700 metric tons of ore per day in 2015 and 50,500 metric tons of ore per day in 2014. production at the doz underground mine is expected to continue through 2021 and to ramp up to 60,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2017. the doz mine fleet consists of over 180 pieces of mobile equipment. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 46 lhd units and 22 haul trucks. each production lhd unit typically carries approximately 11 metric tons of ore. using ore passes and chutes, the lhd units transfer ore into 55-metric ton capacity haul trucks. the trucks dump into two gyratory crushers, and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. the success of the development of the doz mine, one of the world's largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of pt-fi's large-scale, underground ore bodies. 19 table of contents dmlz underground mine the dmlz ore body lies below the doz underground mine at the 2,590-meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the ertsberg east skarn system and neighboring ertsberg porphyry. in september 2015, pt-fi initiated pre-commercial production at the dmlz underground mine, which represents ore extracted during the development phase for the purpose of obtaining access to the ore body. ore milled from the dmlz underground mine averaged 4,400 metric tons of ore per day in 2016 and 2,900 metric tons per day in 2015. targeted production rates once the dmlz underground mine reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2022. production at the dmlz underground mine is expected to continue through 2041. the dmlz mine fleet consists of over 210 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 24 lhd units and 16 haul trucks used in production and development activities. big gossan underground mine production from the big gossan ore body, which restarted in fourth-quarter 2016, is expected to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2022. the big gossan mine lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. it is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. the mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. the crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. the belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. the big gossan mine fleet consists of over 71 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 8 lhd units and 9 haul trucks used in development and production activities. description of ore bodies . our indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the grasberg monzodiorite and the ertsberg diorite. the host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the sudirman range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. the igneous-hosted ore bodies (the grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the doz block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. the sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the doz and all of the big gossan) occur as magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. the copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district's ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. these gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. 20 table of contents the following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported indonesia ore bodies. the following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported indonesia ore bodies and their locations. smelting facilities and other mining properties atlantic copper . our wholly owned atlantic copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the huelva, spain, port authorities, which are scheduled to expire in 2027. the design capacity of the smelter is approximately 295,000 metric tons of copper per year, and the refinery has a capacity of 285,000 metric tons of copper per year. atlantic copper produced 296,900 metric tons of copper anode 21 table of contents from its smelter and 285,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2016 ; 293,100 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 284,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2015; and 294,100 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 283,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2014. following is a summary of atlantic copper's concentrate purchases from third parties and our copper mining operations for the years ended december 31: 2016 2015 2014 third parties 77 % 71 % 50 % north america copper mines 13 23 21 south america mining 7 3 a 21 indonesia mining 3 3 8 100 % 100 % 100 % a. lower purchases from the south america mines primarily reflect the impact of the november 2014 sale of the candelaria and ojos del salado mines. atlantic copper's major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with shorter-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. atlantic copper completed a 68-day major maintenance turnaround in 2013 and a 13-day shorter-term maintenance in 2015. the next 21-day maintenance turnaround is scheduled for second-quarter 2017. pt smelting . pt-fi's cow required us to construct, or cause to be constructed, a smelter in indonesia if we and the indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. in 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of pt smelting, an indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia. pt smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. pt-fi owns 25 percent of pt smelting, with the remainder owned by mitsubishi materials corporation (60.5 percent), mitsubishi corporation unimetals ltd. (9.5 percent) and jx nippon mining &amp; metals corporation (5 percent). pt-fi's contract with pt smelting requires pt-fi to supply 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (at market rates subject to a minimum or maximum treatment charge rate) necessary for pt smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. an extension of the minimum and maximum treatment charge rate, which expires in april 2017, is currently being negotiated. pt-fi may also sell copper concentrate to pt smelting at market rates for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. pt-fi supplied 88 percent of pt smelting's concentrate requirements in 2016 and approximately 80 percent in both 2015 and 2014. pt smelting produced 255,700 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 241,700 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2016 ; 199,700 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 198,400 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2015; and 236,900 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 231,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2014. following a temporary suspension in july 2015, pt smelting operated at approximately 80 percent capacity from september 2015 to november 2015 when required repairs of an acid plant cooling tower that was damaged during the suspension were completed. pt smelting's maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. pt smelting completed a 25-day maintenance turnaround during 2016, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2018. in january and february 2017, the indonesian government issued new regulations to address exports of unrefined metals, including copper concentrate and anode slimes, and other matters related to the mining sector. these regulations permit the export of anode slimes, which is necessary for pt smelting to continue operating. pt smelting is seeking to renew its anode slimes export license; however, we cannot predict when pt smelting's anode slimes export license may be renewed. in addition, a labor strike at pt smelting has resulted in a shutdown of its operations since january 19, 2017. pt smelting has indicated that it expects to resume operations in march 2017. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion of indonesia regulatory matters. 22 table of contents miami smelter . we own and operate a smelter at our miami mining operation in arizona. the smelter has been operating for approximately 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with air quality requirements. the miami smelter is installing emission control equipment that will allow it to operate in compliance with adopted air quality standards (refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion). the miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our north america copper mines. concentrate processed through the smelter totaled 673,300 metric tons in 2016 , 686,700 metric tons in 2015 and 603,700 metric tons in 2014. in addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrate, the miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our north america leaching operations (refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion). major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) typically occur approximately every 14 months for the miami smelter, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. the miami smelter completed a major maintenance turnaround in third-quarter 2016, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for second-quarter 2017. rod &amp; refining operations . our rod &amp; refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in north america, including a refinery in el paso, texas; rod mills in el paso, texas, norwich, connecticut, and miami, arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in bayway, new jersey. we refine our copper anode production from our miami smelter at our el paso refinery. the el paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at our miami smelter. our el paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. molybdenum conversion facilities . we process molybdenum concentrate at our conversion plants in the u.s. and europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates and molybdenum disulfide. we operate molybdenum roasters in sierrita, arizona; fort madison, iowa; and rotterdam, the netherlands, and we operate a molybdenum pressure-leach plant in bagdad, arizona. we also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in stowmarket, united kingdom. freeport cobalt . in march 2013, we acquired a cobalt chemical refinery in kokkola, finland, and the related sales and marketing business which provided direct end-market access for the cobalt hydroxide production at the tenke mine. the joint venture operates under the name freeport cobalt, and we are the operator with an effective 56 percent ownership interest. the remaining effective ownership interest is held by lundin mining corporation (24 percent) and la g n rale des carri res et des mines (20 percent). the kokkola refinery has an annual refining capacity of approximately 15,000 metric tons of cobalt. as further discussed in note 2, we have agreed to negotiate exclusively with china molybdenum co., ltd. until february 28, 2017, to enter into a definitive agreement to sell our interest in freeport cobalt for $100 million. other north america copper mines . we also have five non-operating copper mines in north america ajo, bisbee, twin buttes and tohono in arizona, and cobre in new mexico that have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require new or updated environmental studies, new permits, and additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status. mining development projects and exploration capital expenditures for mining operations totaled $1.6 billion (including $1.2 billion for major projects) in 2016 , $3.3 billion (including $2.4 billion for major projects) in 2015 and $4.0 billion (including $2.9 billion for major projects) in 2014 . capital expenditures for major projects during the three years ended december 31, 2016 , were primarily associated with expansion projects at morenci and cerro verde, and underground development activities at grasberg. refer to md&amp;a for projected capital expenditures for the year 2017. pt-fi has begun suspending investments in its underground development projects, pending resolution of its long-term mining rights. if pt-fi is unable to reach agreement with the indonesian government on its long-term mining rights, we may be required to further reduce or defer investments in underground development projects. we have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. as further discussed in md&amp;a, our near-term major development projects primarily include the underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district. considering the long- 23 table of contents term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. additionally, in response to market conditions and indonesian regulatory uncertainty, the timing of our expenditures will continue to be reviewed. as further discussed in "mining operations - indonesia," pt-fi also committed to commence construction of a new smelter during a five year timeframe after obtaining an investment stability agreement providing equivalent rights with the same level of legal and fiscal certainty enumerated under pt-fi's cow, which has not been received as of february 24, 2017 . as a result, pt-fi has begun suspending investments in its underground development projects and new smelter. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion of indonesia regulatory matters. we continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our mineral reserves. we also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the grasberg minerals district for the kucing liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. we expect to mine the kucing liar ore body using the block-cave method; aggregate capital cost estimates for development of the kucing liar ore body are projected to approximate $2.6 billion (which are expected to be made between 2019 and 2031). additionally, our current mine development plans include approximately $5.7 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once the grasberg open-pit operations cease. we expect substantially all of these expenditures to be made between 2019 and 2034. if pt-fi is unable to reach agreement with the indonesian government on its long-term mining rights, we may be required to reduce or defer investments in underground development projects. our mining exploration activities are generally associated with our existing mines focusing on opportunities to expand reserves and resources to support development of additional future production capacity. exploration results continue to indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions in north and south america. exploration spending associated with mining operations totaled $44 million in 2016 , $96 million in 2015 and $182 million in 2014 . exploration spending is expected to approximate $47 million for the year 2017 . sources and availability of energy, natural resources and raw materials our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented approximately 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2016 and included purchases of approximately 214 million gallons of diesel fuel; 8,400 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north and south america copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 780 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 million mmbtu (british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. based on current cost projections, we estimate energy will approximate 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2017 . our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. for a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. sulphuric acid is used in the sx/ew process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulfur burners at the safford mine. sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties. as further discussed in item 1a. "risk factors," if production were to be curtailed at the miami smelter, we would be required to export concentrate rather than process it ourselves and to purchase sulphuric acid from third parties, thereby increasing our operating costs. community and human rights we have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. we continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs basic education programs public health programs, including malaria control and human immunodeficiency virus agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs 24 table of contents cultural promotion and preservation programs clean water and sanitation projects community infrastructure development charitable donations in december 2000, we endorsed the joint u.s. state department-british foreign office voluntary principles on human rights and security (voluntary principles). we participated in developing these voluntary principles with other major natural resource companies and international human rights organizations and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. the voluntary principles provide guidelines for our security programs, including interaction with host-government security personnel, private security contractors and our internal security employees. we completed a corporate level human rights impact assessment in 2014, the results of which were used to evaluate our human rights program, including a review of our human rights policy. in february 2015, we updated our human rights policy to, among other things, reflect our commitment to integrating the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights into our human rights program. we have embarked on a program to plan and conduct site-level human rights impact assessments at operations with higher potential risks. we also participate in a multi-industry human rights working group to gain insight from peer companies and are integrating human rights due diligence into our business practices. we believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. as part of our ongoing commitment to sustainable community development, we make significant investments in social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations. over the last five years, these investments have averaged $170 million per year. nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. south america . cerro verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, cerro verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve arequipa. in addition, an agreement was reached with the peruvian government for development of a water storage network that was financed by cerro verde and a distribution network that was financed by the cerro verde civil association (the association). the association manages contributions made by cerro verde for projects that focus on education, training, health, cultural preservation and basic infrastructure. cerro verde reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, sedapar and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa, which was completed in 2015. the wastewater treatment plant supplements existing water supplies to support cerro verde's concentrator expansion and also improves the regional water quality, enhances agriculture products grown in the area and reduces waterborne illnesses. in addition to these projects, cerro verde annually makes significant community development investments in the arequipa region. security matters . consistent with our operating permits in peru and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, cerro verde maintains its own internal security department. both employees and contractors perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights and voluntary principles training annually. some contractors assigned to protection of expatriate personnel are armed. these contractors receive training in motivation and defensive driving weekly; human rights and voluntary principles monthly; and firearms quarterly. cerro verde's costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $6 million in both 2016 and 2015 and $7 million in 2014. cerro verde, and all businesses and residents of peru, rely on the peruvian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the peruvian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. since 1997, the peruvian government has relied on cerro verde to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the peruvian government. cerro verde's financial support for the peruvian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, 25 table of contents and have the logistical resources to secure cerro verde's operating area. in addition, providing such support reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that promote human rights. cerro verde's share of support costs for the government-provided security approximated $1 million in each of the years 2016, 2015 and 2014. this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. indonesia . in 1996, pt-fi established the freeport partnership fund for community development (the partnership fund) through which pt-fi has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development of the area. pt-fi has committed through 2018 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the partnership fund. pt-fi recognized $33 million in 2016 , $27 million in 2015 and $31 million in 2014 for this commitment. the amungme and kamoro community development organization ( lembaga pengembangan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro or lpmak) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the partnership fund. lpmak is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local amungme and kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of pt-fi on each board. the amungme and kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. in addition to the partnership fund, pt-fi annually makes significant investments in public health, education, community infrastructure and economic development. security matters . consistent with our cow in indonesia and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, pt-fi maintains its own internal security department. both employees and contractors are unarmed and perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights training annually. pt-fi's share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $58 million for both 2016 and 2015 and $57 million for 2014 . pt-fi, and all businesses and residents of indonesia, rely on the indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesian government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. this designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. the indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. from the outset of pt-fi's operations, the indonesian government has looked to pt-fi to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in papua. pt-fi's financial support for the indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol pt-fi's roads and secure its operating area. in addition, the provision of such support is consistent with pt-fi's obligations under the cow, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights. pt-fi's share of support costs for the government-provided security was $20 million in 2016 , $21 million in 2015 and $27 million in 2014 . this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. refer to item 1a. "risk factors" for further discussion of security risks in indonesia. 26 table of contents mining production and sales data years ended december 31, production sales copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 (fcx's net interest in %) north america morenci (72%) a 848 902 691 855 915 680 bagdad (100%) 177 210 237 180 222 240 safford (100%) 230 202 139 229 198 142 sierrita (100%) 162 189 195 162 196 196 miami (100%) 25 43 57 27 46 60 chino (100%) 308 314 250 308 319 243 tyrone (100%) 76 84 94 75 89 96 other (100%) 5 3 7 5 3 7 total north america 1,831 1,947 1,670 1,841 1,988 1,664 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 1,108 545 500 1,105 544 501 el abra (51%) 220 324 367 227 327 366 candelaria/ojos del salado (80%) b 284 268 total south america 1,328 869 1,151 1,332 871 1,135 indonesia grasberg (90.64%) c 1,063 752 636 1,054 744 664 consolidated - continuing operations 4,222 3,568 3,457 4,227 d 3,603 d 3,463 d discontinued operations e 425 449 447 424 467 425 total 4,647 4,017 3,904 4,651 4,070 3,888 less noncontrolling interests 909 680 725 910 688 715 net 3,738 3,337 3,179 3,741 3,382 3,173 average realized price per pound (continuing operations) $ 2.28 $ 2.42 $ 3.09 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) north america (100%) 27 25 12 25 23 13 south america (80%) b 72 67 indonesia (90.64%) c 1,061 1,232 1,130 1,054 1,224 1,168 consolidated 1,088 1,257 1,214 1,079 1,247 1,248 less noncontrolling interests 99 115 120 99 115 123 net 989 1,142 1,094 980 1,132 1,125 average realized price per ounce $ 1,238 $ 1,129 $ 1,231 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) henderson (100%) 10 25 30 n/a n/a n/a climax (100%) 16 23 21 n/a n/a n/a north america copper mines (100%) a 33 37 33 n/a n/a n/a cerro verde (53.56%) 21 7 11 n/a n/a n/a consolidated 80 92 95 74 89 95 less noncontrolling interest 9 3 5 6 4 5 net 71 89 90 68 85 90 average realized price per pound $ 8.33 $ 8.70 $ 12.74 a. amounts are net of morenci's undivided joint venture partners' interest; effective may 31, 2016, fcx's undivided interest in morenci was prospectively reduced from 85 percent to 72 percent. b. in november 2014, we completed the sale of our 80 percent interests in the candelaria and ojos del salado mines. c. amounts are net of grasberg's joint venture partner interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement (refer to note 3). under the joint venture agreement, pt-fi's share of copper production and sales was 100 percent in 2016 and 2015 and 98 percent in 2014 . pt-fi's share of gold production and sales was 100 percent in 2016, 2015 and 2014. d. consolidated sales volumes exclude purchased copper of 188 million pounds for 2016, 121 million pounds for 2015 and 125 million pounds for 2014. e. in november 2016, we completed the sale of our interest in tfhl, through which we held an interest in the tenke mine, which is reported as a discontinued operation for all periods presented (refer to note 2 for further discussion). 27 table of contents mineral reserves recoverable proven and probable reserves have been calculated in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange act of 1934. proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance in other countries. proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. the term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the term proven reserves means reserves for which (i) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (ii) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (iii) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. the term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at december 31, 2016 , were determined using long-term average prices of $2.00 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. for the three-year period ended december 31, 2016 , lme spot copper prices averaged $2.60 per pound, london pm gold prices averaged $1,226 per ounce and the weekly average price for molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $8.18 per pound. the recoverable proven and probable reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. recoverable reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2016 copper a (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) north america 30.4 0.3 2.31 south america 29.5 0.64 indonesia b 26.9 25.8 consolidated basis c 86.8 26.1 2.95 net equity interest d 70.5 23.7 2.65 a. consolidated recoverable copper reserves include 2.2 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 1.0 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (refer to mill and leach stockpiles for further discussion). b. recoverable proven and probable reserves from indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041. refer to note 13 and to item 1a. "risk factors" for discussion of pt-fi's cow and indonesian regulatory matters. c. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our joint ventures). excluded from the table above were our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves of 281.8 million ounces of silver in north america, south america and indonesia, which were determined using a long term average price of $15 per ounce. d. net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries). excluded from the table above were our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves of 226.0 million ounces of silver in north america, south america and indonesia. 28 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2016 proven reserves probable reserves average ore grade average ore grade processing million copper gold moly silver million copper gold moly silver method metric tons % g/t % g/t metric tons % g/t % g/t north america morenci mill 591 0.43 0.02 93 0.40 0.02 crushed leach 290 0.52 66 0.46 rom leach 1,711 0.18 523 0.16 bagdad mill 969 0.35 a 0.02 1.46 136 0.32 a 0.02 1.36 rom leach 88 0.17 51 0.14 safford crushed leach 50 0.31 25 0.31 sierrita mill 2,220 0.23 a 0.03 1.39 214 0.19 a 0.02 1.10 chino mill 87 0.61 0.04 0.01 0.51 48 0.56 0.04 a 0.49 rom leach 73 0.28 18 0.29 tyrone rom leach 6 0.51 a 1.23 henderson mill 63 0.18 14 0.14 climax mill 146 0.16 24 0.09 cobre b mill 13 0.57 a 0.49 rom leach 72 0.30 1 0.22 6,379 1,213 south america cerro verde mill 854 0.38 0.01 1.92 2,698 0.37 0.01 1.88 crushed leach 32 0.50 40 0.34 rom leach 11 0.21 38 0.20 el abra crushed leach 333 0.46 86 0.43 rom leach 9 0.19 3 0.21 1,239 2,865 indonesia dmlz mill 73 1.00 0.83 4.75 366 0.88 0.74 4.27 grasberg open pit mill 20 1.81 3.65 5.14 36 0.95 1.25 2.76 doz mill 30 0.54 0.71 2.25 70 0.50 0.69 2.04 big gossan mill 18 2.33 1.00 14.62 42 2.13 0.96 12.69 grasberg block cave b mill 374 1.14 0.89 4.12 590 0.96 0.70 3.26 kucing liar b mill 152 1.34 1.16 7.09 256 1.22 1.06 5.94 667 1,360 total fcx - 100% basis 8,285 5,438 a. grade not shown because of rounding. b. would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. the reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below: g/t grams per metric ton moly molybdenum rom run of mine 29 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2016 (continued) proven and probable average ore grade recoveries a processing million copper gold moly silver copper gold moly silver method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % north america morenci mill 684 0.42 0.02 81.4 49.3 crushed leach 356 0.51 78.5 rom leach 2,234 0.18 43.0 bagdad mill 1,105 0.34 b 0.02 1.45 86.3 59.1 70.8 49.3 rom leach 139 0.16 27.3 safford crushed leach 75 0.31 70.4 sierrita mill 2,434 0.23 b 0.02 1.36 83.1 59.3 79.5 49.3 chino mill 135 0.59 0.04 0.01 0.50 82.1 86.6 40.7 87.3 rom leach 91 0.28 29.2 tyrone rom leach 6 0.51 67.8 henderson mill 77 0.17 86.3 climax mill 170 0.15 89.6 cobre c mill 13 0.57 81.7 rom leach 73 0.30 47.7 7,592 south america cerro verde mill 3,552 0.37 0.01 1.89 86.3 54.3 44.8 crushed leach 72 0.41 79.9 rom leach 49 0.20 52.5 el abra crushed leach 419 0.46 59.0 rom leach 12 0.20 42.6 4,104 indonesia dmlz mill 439 0.90 0.75 4.35 86.9 79.3 64.3 grasberg open pit mill 56 1.26 2.11 3.62 89.0 86.5 45.2 doz mill 100 0.51 0.70 2.10 90.2 81.9 67.1 big gossan mill 60 2.19 0.97 13.29 91.5 67.2 63.7 grasberg block cave c mill 964 1.03 0.78 3.60 84.4 65.3 56.9 kucing liar c mill 408 1.26 1.10 6.37 85.3 46.5 39.5 2,027 total fcx - 100% basis 13,723 a. recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. grade not shown because of rounding. c. would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. 30 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2016 (continued) recoverable reserves copper gold moly silver fcx's processing billion million billion million interest method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. north america morenci 72% mill 5.2 0.15 crushed leach 3.1 rom leach 3.8 bagdad 100% mill 7.2 0.1 0.36 25.4 rom leach 0.2 safford 100% crushed leach 0.3 sierrita 100% mill 10.2 0.1 1.04 52.5 chino 100% mill 1.4 0.1 0.01 1.9 rom leach 0.2 tyrone 100% rom leach 0.1 henderson 100% mill 0.25 climax 100% mill 0.52 cobre 100% mill 0.1 rom leach 0.3 32.1 0.3 2.33 79.8 recoverable metal in stockpiles a 1.9 0.02 100% operations 34.0 0.3 2.35 79.8 consolidated b 30.4 0.3 2.31 79.8 net equity interest c 30.4 0.3 2.31 79.8 south america cerro verde 53.56% mill 25.0 0.62 96.7 crushed leach 0.5 rom leach 0.2 el abra 51% crushed leach 2.5 rom leach d 28.2 0.62 96.7 recoverable metal in stockpiles a 1.3 0.02 2.9 100% operations 29.5 0.64 99.6 consolidated b 29.5 0.64 99.6 net equity interest c 15.7 0.34 53.4 indonesia dmlz e mill 7.6 8.4 39.5 grasberg open pit e mill 1.4 3.3 2.9 doz e mill 1.0 1.8 4.5 big gossan e mill 2.6 1.3 16.3 grasberg block cave e mill 18.5 15.7 63.5 kucing liar e mill 9.7 6.7 33.0 40.8 37.2 159.7 recoverable metal in stockpiles a 0.3 0.1 0.6 100% operations 41.1 37.3 160.3 consolidated b 26.9 25.8 102.4 net equity interest c 24.4 23.4 92.8 total fcx 100% basis 104.6 37.6 2.99 339.7 total fcx consolidated basis b 86.8 26.1 2.95 281.8 total fcx net equity interest c 70.5 23.7 2.65 226.0 a. refer to "mill and leach stockpiles" for additional information. b. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our joint ventures. c. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. d. amount not shown because of rounding. e. our joint venture agreement with rio tinto provides that pt-fi will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2022, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of december 31,1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow. 31 table of contents in defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. the objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. we use a "break-even cutoff grade" to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. the break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum and silver. we value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. the calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. the table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of december 31, 2016 : copper equivalent cutoff grade (percent) molybdenum cutoff grade (percent) mill crushed or agitation leach rom leach mill north america morenci 0.27 0.17 0.03 bagdad 0.20 0.06 safford 0.12 sierrita 0.17 chino 0.23 0.08 tyrone 0.11 henderson 0.12 climax 0.05 cobre 0.28 0.10 south america cerro verde 0.17 0.14 0.14 el abra 0.10 0.08 indonesia dmlz 0.85 grasberg open pit 0.25 doz 0.92 big gossan 1.52 grasberg block cave 0.78 kucing liar 1.01 32 table of contents drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. the following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: average drill hole spacing (in meters) proven probable mining unit mill leach mill leach north america morenci open pit 86 86 122 122 bagdad open pit 86 86 122 122 safford open pit 86 122 sierrita open pit 73 104 miami open pit 61 91 chino open pit 43 86 86 122 tyrone open pit 86 86 henderson block cave 47 96 climax open pit 61 91 cobre open pit 61 61 91 91 south america cerro verde open pit 55 55 100 100 el abra open pit 75 120 indonesia dmlz block cave 21 65 grasberg open pit open pit 34 68 doz block cave 23 58 big gossan open stope 12 35 grasberg block cave block cave 34 79 kucing liar block cave 33 88 33 table of contents production sequencing the following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body and from related stockpiles. the chart also shows the term of pt-fi's cow. production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. the sequencing dates shown in the chart below include development activity that results in metal production. the ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. in addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below. mill and leach stockpiles mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from an ore body and are available for copper recovery. mill stockpiles contain sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. leach stockpiles contain oxide ores and certain secondary sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. total copper recovery in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low 34 table of contents percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including processing methodology, processing variables, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 80 percent of total copper recovery may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of december 31, 2016 : recoverable million average recovery copper metric tons ore grade (%) rate (%) (billion pounds) mill stockpiles cerro verde 151 0.32 73.1 0.8 grasberg minerals district 33 0.53 65.8 0.3 184 1.1 leach stockpiles morenci 6,204 0.24 2.2 0.7 bagdad 499 0.24 0.9 a safford 237 0.47 10.9 0.3 sierrita 650 0.15 10.7 0.2 miami 498 0.39 2.3 0.1 chino 1,722 0.25 4.9 0.5 tyrone 1,130 0.28 1.9 0.1 cerro verde 436 0.50 4.8 0.2 el abra 670 0.44 4.9 0.3 12,046 2.4 total fcx - 100% basis 3.5 total fcx - consolidated basis b 3.2 total fcx - net equity interest c 2.6 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. consolidated stockpiles represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our joint ventures. c. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. mineralized material we hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. however, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $2.20 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold, $12 per pound for molybdenum and $20 per ounce for silver. 35 table of contents mineralized material estimated at december 31, 2016 milling material leaching material total mineralized material million million million fcx's metric copper gold moly silver metric copper metric interest tons % g/t % g/t tons % tons north america morenci 72% 551 0.30 0.02 905 0.22 1,456 bagdad 100% 839 0.27 a 0.02 1.2 4 0.19 843 safford 100% 226 0.63 0.12 2.4 116 0.26 342 sierrita 100% 1,768 0.18 a 0.02 1.1 1,768 chino 100% 146 0.48 0.03 0.01 0.4 11 0.26 157 tyrone 100% 18 0.38 18 henderson 100% 77 0.14 77 climax 100% 414 0.15 414 cobre 100% 30 0.46 0.07 1.1 4 0.29 34 ajo 100% 438 0.40 0.06 0.01 0.9 438 cochise/bisbee 100% 255 0.46 255 lone star 100% 642 0.47 642 sanchez 100% 153 0.29 153 tohono 100% 230 0.71 271 0.67 501 twin buttes 100% 76 0.61 0.04 6.3 42 0.23 118 christmas 100% 203 0.40 0.05 a 1.0 203 south america cerro verde 53.56% 972 0.36 0.02 1.8 8 0.34 980 el abra 51% 1,999 0.45 0.02 0.01 1.4 188 0.28 2,187 indonesia grasberg minerals district 54.38% b 2,004 0.72 0.64 3.7 2,004 total fcx - 100% basis 9,973 2,617 12,590 c total fcx - consolidated basis d 9,017 2,363 11,380 total fcx - net equity interest e 7,474 2,267 9,741 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. fcx's interest in the grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership. c. excludes mineralized material of 89 million metric tons associated with kisanfu, which in accordance with accounting guidelines is included in assets held for sale. d. consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for joint venture partner interests in the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our joint ventures. e. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. 36 table of contents oil and gas operations as further discussed in note 2, during 2016, we completed the sales of our deepwater gom, onshore california and haynesville oil and gas properties, which represented 90 percent of our total proved reserves as of december 31, 2015, and 83 percent of our total oil and natural gas production for the year ended december 31, 2016. in january 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell our property interests in the madden area in central wyoming. following the completion of the madden transaction, our portfolio of oil and gas assets would include oil and natural gas production onshore in south louisiana and on the gom shelf and oil production offshore california, which had total oil and gas sales volumes of 6.4 mmboe in 2016. acreage at december 31, 2016 , we owned interests in oil and gas leases covering 411 thousand gross acres ( 218 thousand acres net to our interest), consisting of 325 thousand gross ( 160 thousand net) of developed acres and 86 thousand gross ( 58 thousand net) of undeveloped acres. developed acres are acres spaced or assigned to productive wells and do not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the lease. undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. exploration and development activities capital expenditures for our oil and gas operations totaled $1.2 billion in 2016 (including $0.6 billion incurred for gom and $0.5 billion for changes in capital expenditure accruals), $3.0 billion in 2015 (including $ 2.6 billion incurred for gom) and $3.2 billion in 2014 (including $2.6 billion incurred for gom). during second-quarter 2016, we terminated contracts for deepwater drillships and settled aggregate commitments totaling $1.1 billion for $755 million, of which $540 million was funded with shares of our common stock. we currently have no plans to incur oil and gas exploration expenditures in future periods. production and sales data the following table presents summary oil and gas production and sales data for the years ended december 31: 2016 2015 2014 gom a oil (mmbbls) 22.9 22.2 19.7 natural gas (bcf) 39.0 b 35.9 b 28.7 ngls (mmbbls) 1.7 2.2 2.0 mmboe 31.1 30.3 26.5 california c oil (mmbbls) 11.4 12.9 13.7 natural gas (bcf) 1.8 b 2.2 b 2.4 b ngls (mmbbls) 0.1 0.2 0.2 mmboe 11.8 13.5 14.3 haynesville/madden/other d oil (mmbbls) 0.1 0.2 0.2 natural gas (bcf) 24.3 51.6 42.4 mmboe 4.2 8.8 7.3 eagle ford e oil (mmbbls) 6.5 natural gas (bcf) 7.4 ngls (mmbbls) 1.0 mmboe 8.7 total u.s. oil and gas operations oil (mmbbls) 34.4 35.3 40.1 natural gas (bcf) 65.1 89.7 80.9 ngls (mmbbls) 1.8 2.4 3.2 mmboe 47.1 52.6 56.8 average cost per boe: production costs f $ 14.51 $ 17.14 $ 18.00 production and ad valorem taxes 0.68 1.45 2.08 cash production costs g $ 15.19 $ 18.59 $ 20.08 37 table of contents a. includes properties in the deepwater gom and on the shelf. in december 2016, we completed the sale of the deepwater gom properties, which had sales volumes of 26.4 mmboe in 2016. b. natural gas sales from gom are net of fuel used in operations totaling 3.8 bcf in 2016 and 1.1 bcf in 2015. natural gas sales from california are net of fuel used in operations totaling 0.1 bcf in 2016, 0.6 bcf in 2015 and 1.2 bcf in 2014. c. includes properties onshore and offshore california. in december 2016, we completed the sale of the onshore california properties, which had sales volumes of 10.2 mmboe in 2016. d. in july 2016, we completed the sale of the haynesville shale assets, which had sales volumes of 2.7 mmboe in 2016. in january 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell our property interests in the madden area, which had sales volumes of 1.2 mmboe in 2016. e. in june 2014, we completed the sale of eagle ford shale assets. f. reflects costs incurred to operate and maintain wells and related equipment and facilities. g. refer to md&amp;a for further discussion of cash production costs per boe and for a reconciliation to production costs reported in our consolidated financial statements. oil and gas reserves at december 31, 2016 , our estimated proved developed oil and gas reserves (all of which are located in the u.s.) totaled 18 mmboe, comprised of 4 mmbbls of oil and ngls and 87 bcf of natural gas, and included 7 mmboe associated with our property interests in the madden area. we had no proved undeveloped reserves at december 31, 2016. refer to note 21 for further discussion of our proved oil and gas reserves. drilling activities the following table provides the total number of wells that we drilled during the years ended december 31: 2016 2015 2014 gross net gross net gross net exploratory productive: oil 2 2 2 1 25 21 gas 1 31 5 21 2 dry 4 3 10 7 3 2 37 9 56 30 development productive: oil 8 5 7 3 184 174 gas 1 17 2 75 10 dry 2 2 2 9 5 26 7 261 184 12 7 63 16 317 214 in addition to the wells drilled, there was one gross exploratory and one gross development well (zero net exploratory and zero net development wells) in progress at december 31, 2016 . productive wells we had working interests in 120 gross (94 net) active producing oil wells and 640 gross (100 net) active producing natural gas wells at december 31, 2016 (of which 293 gross (40 net) active producing natural gas wells were in the madden area); 3,060 gross (2,976 net) active producing oil wells and 1,759 gross (213 net) active producing natural gas wells at december 31, 2015 ; and 3,069 gross (2,991 net) active producing oil wells and 1,710 gross (211 net) active producing natural gas wells at december 31, 2014 . one or more completions in the same well bore are considered one well. if any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion, such well is classified as an oil well. at december 31, 2016 , we owned interests in two gross wells containing multiple completions. 38 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. this report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of united states (u.s.) federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as projections or expectations relating to ore grades and milling rates; production and sales volumes; unit net cash costs; operating cash flows; capital expenditures; exploration efforts and results; development and production activities and costs; liquidity; tax rates; the impact of copper, gold and molybdenum price changes; the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings; reserve estimates; future dividend payments; and share purchases and sales. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. we caution readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following: financial risks declines in the market prices of copper and molybdenum have adversely affected our earnings, cash flows and asset values and, if sustained, may adversely affect our ability to repay debt. fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum have caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in our financial performance and in the trading prices of our debt and common stock. our financial results will vary with fluctuations in the market prices of the commodities we produce, primarily copper and gold, and to a lesser extent molybdenum. as described below, beginning in 2015, copper prices declined significantly, before recovering in fourth-quarter 2016. if prices decline in the future, they may have a material adverse effect on our financial results, the value of our assets and/or our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations; and may depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. in response to market-conditions, beginning in the second half of 2015, we made adjustments to operating plans for our mining operations, including reducing operating and capital costs and adjusting production at our north america copper mines; reducing mining and stacking rates at our el abra mine in chile by approximately 50 percent to achieve lower operating and labor costs, defer capital expenditures and extend the life of the operation; and operating the henderson molybdenum mine in colorado at reduced rates. if market prices for our primary commodities decline or persist at low levels, we may have to further revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. we may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, in which case we may incur additional losses, and those losses may be material. fluctuations in commodities prices are caused by varied and complex factors beyond our control, including global supply and demand balances and inventory levels; global economic and political conditions; international regulatory, trade and tax policies; commodities investment activity and speculation; the price and availability of substitute products; and changes in technology. copper prices may be affected by demand from china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world, and by changes in demand for industrial, commercial and residential products containing copper. copper prices declined significantly during 2015 and remained low throughout most of 2016, with london metal exchange (lme) spot copper prices averaging $2.21 per pound in 2016, $2.49 per pound in 2015 and $3.11 per pound in 2014. during fourth-quarter 2016, copper prices improved, with the lme spot price averaging $2.39 per pound. the lme spot copper price was $2.50 per pound on december 31, 2016 , and $2.73 per pound on february 15, 2017 . factors affecting gold prices may include the relative strength of the u.s. dollar to other currencies, inflation and interest rate expectations, purchases and sales of gold by governments and central banks, demand from china and india, two of the world ' largest consumers of gold, and global demand for jewelry containing gold. the london pm gold price averaged $1,250 per ounce in 2016, $1,160 per ounce in 2015 and $1,266 per ounce in 2014. the london pm gold price was $1,224 per ounce on february 15, 2017 . 39 table of contents molybdenum prices also declined significantly during 2015 and have remained low throughout 2016, with the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price averaging $6.47 per pound in 2016, $6.66 per pound in 2015 and $11.41 per pound in 2014. the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price was $7.59 per pound on february 15, 2017 . lower copper and molybdenum prices during 2016 and 2015 resulted in non-cash charges for inventory adjustments ( $36 million for the year 2016 and $338 million for the year 2015) and long-lived mining asset impairments ( $37 million for the year 2015). refer to notes 4 and 5 for additional information. declines in copper and/or molybdenum prices could result in additional metals inventory adjustments and impairment charges for our long-lived assets. other events that could result in impairment of our long-lived assets include, but are not limited to, decreases in estimated proven and probable mineral reserves and any event that might have a material adverse effect on mine production costs. our debt and other financial commitments may limit our financial and operating flexibility. at december 31, 2016 , our total consolidated debt was $ 16.0 billion (see note 8) and our total consolidated cash was $4.2 billion . we also have various other financial commitments, including reclamation and environmental obligations, take-or-pay contracts and leases. our level of indebtedness and other financial commitments could have important consequences to our business, including the following: limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industries in which we operate; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and/or material contingencies, to engage in future development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt; requiring us to sell assets to reduce debt; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. any failure to comply with the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements may result in an event of default that would allow the creditors to accelerate maturities of the related debt, which in turn may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt agreements. our available cash and liquidity would not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our debt instruments that are accelerated upon an event of default. from august 2015 through november 2016, we sold 326.5 million shares of our common stock under registered at-the-market equity programs, which generated $3.5 billion in gross proceeds (refer to note 10). in addition, during 2016, we issued 48.1 million shares of our common stock in connection with the settlement of two drilling rig contracts (refer to note 13) and 27.7 million shares of our common stock in exchange for $369 million of fcx senior notes (refer to note 10). any additional issuance of equity capital to fund operations, reduce debt, improve our financial position or for other purposes, may have a negative impact on our stock price. as of february 15, 2017 , our senior unsecured debt was rated "bb-" with a stable outlook by standard &amp; poor's (s&amp;p), "bbb-" with a negative outlook by fitch ratings (fitch), and "b1" with a positive outlook by moody's investors service (moody's). there is no assurance that our credit ratings will not be downgraded in the future. for more information, refer to the risk factor below relating to mine closure and reclamation regulations and plugging and abandonment obligations related to our remaining oil and gas operations. 40 table of contents mine closure and reclamation regulations impose substantial costs on our operations and include requirements that we provide financial assurance supporting those obligations. we also have plugging and abandonment obligations related to our remaining oil and gas properties, and are required to provide bonds or other forms of financial assurance in connection with those operations. changes in or the failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. we are required by u.s. federal and state laws and regulations to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans for our mining properties if we are unable to do so. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and state agencies may also require financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions that are required under settlements of enforcement actions under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980 (cercla) or similar state laws. refer to note 12 for additional information regarding our financial assurance obligations. with respect to our mining operations, most of our financial assurance obligations are imposed by state laws that vary significantly by jurisdiction, depending on how each state regulates land use and groundwater quality. although section 108(b) of cercla has required epa to identify classes of facilities that must establish evidence of financial responsibility since it was adopted in 1980, currently there are no financial assurance requirements for active mining operations under cercla. in august 2014, several environmental organizations initiated litigation against epa to require it to set a schedule for adopting financial assurance regulations under cercla governing the hard rock mining industry. epa and the environmental organizations reached a joint agreement and submitted it to the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit for approval. notwithstanding industry objections, the court approved the agreement on january 29, 2016, thereby requiring the epa to propose financial assurance regulations for the hard rock mining industry by december 1, 2016, and to provide notice of its final action by december 1, 2017. the proposed regulations were published on january 11, 2017, subject to a 60-day comment period. the proposed rules, if promulgated without material modification, would result in onerous financial responsibility obligations for our u.s. hard rock mining operations, and the form, cost and availability of financial mechanisms necessary to meet such obligations is uncertain (if they could be met at all). in addition, complying with these obligations could be very costly, harm the international competitiveness of our u.s. hard rock mining operations and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are also subject to financial assurance requirements in connection with our remaining oil and gas operations under both state and federal laws, including financial responsibility required under the oil pollution act of 1990 to cover containment and cleanup costs resulting from an oil spill. in 2016, the u.s. bureau of ocean energy management issued revised requirements for lessees operating in federal waters to secure the cost of plugging, abandoning, decommissioning and/or removing wells, platforms and pipelines at the end of production. the revised requirements eliminate previously provided waivers from requirements to post security. the new requirements to post significant amounts of security in the form of bonds or similar assurances could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. the cost for bonds or assurances can be substantial, and there is no assurance that they can be obtained in all cases. as of december 31, 2016 , our financial assurance obligations totaled $1.1 billion for closure and reclamation/restoration costs of u.s. mining sites, and $0.7 billion for plugging and abandonment obligations of our remaining oil and gas operations (refer to note 12). a substantial portion of our financial assurance obligations are satisfied by fcx guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. as a result of the downgrade of our credit ratings on our debt to below investment grade by s&amp;p and moody's, we may be required to provide additional or alternative forms of financial assurance, such as letters of credit, surety bonds or collateral. these other forms of assurance are costly to provide and, depending on our financial condition and market conditions, may be difficult or impossible to obtain. failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of the affected properties. refer to notes 1 and 12 , for further discussion of our environmental and asset retirement obligations. unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation or with respect to other contingencies could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in numerous legal proceedings and subject to other contingencies that have arisen or may arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues arising from legacy operations conducted over the years by freeport minerals corporation (fmc) and its affiliates, including those described in 41 table of contents note 12 and in item 3. "legal proceedings" involving matters such as remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, claims of personal injury or property damage arising from such contamination or from exposure to substances such as lead, arsenic, asbestos, talc and other allegedly toxic substances, disputes over water rights, and disputes with foreign governments or regulatory authorities over royalties, taxes, rights and obligations under concession or other agreements, or other matters. we are also involved periodically in other reviews, inquiries, investigations and other proceedings initiated by or involving government agencies, some of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition, from time to time we are involved in disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties, other sanctions or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. management does not believe, based on currently available information, that the outcome of any individual legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, although individual or cumulative outcomes could be material to our operating results for a particular period, depending on the nature and magnitude of the outcome and the operating results for the period. with respect to the asbestos exposure cases described in note 12, there has been an increase in the number of cases against fmc and its affiliates alleging exposure to talc contaminated with asbestos and to talc that is not alleged to be contaminated with asbestos. recently, there have been a limited number of large jury awards in single plaintiff cases primarily brought by consumers against makers of common consumer products containing talc and alleging serious health risks, including ovarian cancer associated with long-term use of such products. prior affiliates were involved in talc mining, and some of those affiliates have been named as defendants in some of those cases. we have indemnification rights against a successor to those businesses, and the successor has acknowledged those indemnification obligations and has taken responsibility for all cases we have tendered to it. however, the indemnitor may have limited financial resources and limited amounts of insurance available to meet those obligations. international risks our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in countries outside the u.s. we are a u.s.-based mining company with substantial assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru and chile. accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in countries outside the u.s., our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. risks of conducting business in countries outside of the u.s. include: renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts; expropriation or nationalization of property; changes in the host country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, which because of rising "resource nationalism" in countries around the world, may impose increasingly onerous requirements on foreign operations and investment; political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; changes in the aspirations and expectations of local communities in which we operate with respect to our contributions to employee health and safety, infrastructure and community development and other factors that may affect our social license to operate, all of which lead to increased costs; changes in u.s. trade, tax, immigration or other policies that may harm relations with foreign countries or result in retaliatory policies; foreign exchange controls and movements in foreign currency exchange rates; and 42 table of contents the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of an international court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. may be substantially affected by many unpredictable factors beyond our control, some of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. our international operations must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we operate. there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws in recent years, and a steadily increasing focus on enforcement of those laws continues. any violation of those laws could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax disputes with the indonesian and peruvian tax authorities (refer to note 12 for further discussion of these matters). other risks specific to certain countries in which we operate are discussed in more detail below. because our grasberg mining operation in indonesia is a significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia. our mining operations in indonesia are conducted by our subsidiary pt freeport indonesia (pt-fi) pursuant to a contract of work (cow) with the indonesian government. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because of the significance of our indonesia operations to our business, and because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our indonesia operations have been the subject of political debates and of criticism in the indonesian press, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. for further discussion of the history of pt-fi's cow, refer to note 13 . the initial term of pt-fi's cow expires in 2021, but the cow explicitly provides that it can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. pt-fi has been engaged in discussions with officials of the indonesian government since 2012 regarding various provisions of its cow, including extending its term. notwithstanding provisions in the cow prohibiting it from doing so, the indonesian government has sought to modify existing mining contracts, including pt-fi's cow, to address provisions contained in the mining law enacted in 2009; and mining regulations adopted thereunder, including provisions that conflict with the cow, such as the size of contract concessions, government revenues, domestic processing of minerals, divestment, provision of local goods and services, conversion from a cow to a licensing framework for extension periods, and a requirement that extensions may be applied for only within two years prior to a cow's expiration. regulations published in january 2014 imposed, among other things, a progressive export duty on copper concentrate and restricted exports of copper concentrate and anode slimes (a by-product of the copper refining process containing metals, including gold) after january 12, 2017. despite pt-fi's rights under its cow to export concentrate without the payment of duties, pt-fi was unable to obtain administrative approval for exports and operated at approximately half of its capacity from mid-january 2014 through july 2014. in july 2014, pt-fi entered into a memorandum of understanding (mou) with the indonesian government, in which, subject to concluding an agreement to extend pt-fi's operations beyond 2021 on acceptable terms, pt-fi agreed to construct new smelter capacity in indonesia and to divest an additional 20.64 percent interest at fair value. under the mou, pt-fi provided a $115 million assurance bond to support its commitment for smelter development, agreed to pay higher royalty rates and agreed to pay export duties until certain smelter development milestones were met. the mou also anticipated an amendment of the cow within six months to address other matters; however, no terms of the cow other than those relating to the smelter bond, increased royalties and export duties were changed. in january 2015, the mou was extended to july 25, 2015, and it expired on that date. the indonesian government has continued to impose the increased royalty rates, export duties and smelter assurance bond. 43 table of contents in october 2015, the indonesian government provided a letter of assurance to pt-fi indicating that it would revise regulations allowing it to approve the extension of pt-fi's operations beyond 2021, and provide the same rights and the same level of legal and fiscal certainty provided under the current cow. in january and february 2017, the indonesian government issued new regulations to address exports of unrefined metals, including copper concentrate and anode slimes, and other matters related to the mining sector. the new regulations permit the continuation of copper concentrate exports for a five-year period through january 2022, subject to various conditions, including conversion from a contract of work to a special operating license (known as an iupk, which provides virtually none of the protections of a contract of work), commitment to completion of smelter construction in five years and payment of export duties to be determined by the ministry of finance. in addition, the new regulations enable application for extension of operating rights five years before expiration of the iupk and require foreign iupk holders to divest 51 percent to indonesian interests no later than the tenth year of production. export licenses would be valid for one-year periods, subject to review every six months, depending on smelter construction progress. the january 2017 regulations permit the export of anode slimes, which is necessary for pt smelting (ptfi's 25-percent-owned copper smelter and refinery located in gresik, indonesia) to continue operating. pt smelting is seeking to renew its anode slimes export license; however, we cannot predict when pt smelting's anode slimes export license may be renewed. in addition, a labor strike at pt smelting has resulted in a shutdown of its operations since january 19, 2017. although pt-fi is taking near-term actions to reduce production to match available processing capacity at pt smelting, or approximately 40 percent of pt-fi's concentrate production capacity, on february 10, 2017, pt-fi was forced to suspend production as a result of limited storage capacity at pt-fi and pt smelting. pt smelting has indicated that it expects to resume operations in march 2017. delays in pt smelting obtaining its anode slimes export license or restarting operations could further impact pt-fi's operations. following the issuance of the january and february 2017 regulations and discussions with the government, pt-fi advised the indonesian government that it was prepared to convert its cow to an iupk, subject to obtaining an investment stability agreement providing equivalent rights with the same level of legal and fiscal certainty enumerated under its cow, and provided that the cow would remain in effect until it is replaced by a mutually satisfactory alternative. pt-fi also committed to commence construction of a new smelter during a five-year timeframe after approval of the extension of its long-term operating rights. under its cow, pt-fi has specified rights to export copper concentrate without restriction or payment of export duties. pt-fi has requested that concentrate exports be permitted without the imposition of export duties while the new license and stability agreement are negotiated. the indonesia government has indicated that in order to export its concentrate production, pt-fi would be required to immediately convert to an iupk, forgo its current rights to fiscal and legal certainty and commit to a new smelter prior to completing a long-term investment stability agreement. pt-fi has advised the indonesian government that attempts to enforce the new regulations on pt-fi violates its cow and that it is unwilling to terminate its cow unless replaced by a mutually acceptable form of agreement providing fiscal and legal assurances to support its long-term investment plans in papua, indonesia. as of february 24, 2017 , pt-fi has not obtained approval to export concentrate and production remains suspended. pt-fi is taking near-term actions to reduce production to match available processing capacity at pt smelting, or approximately 40 percent of pt-fi's concentrate production capacity (assuming that pt smelting's export license is approved and its operations are resumed in march 2017). pt-fi has begun to significantly adjust its cost structure, reduce its workforce and spending with local suppliers, and suspend investments in its underground development projects and new smelter. on february 17, 2017, pursuant to the cow's dispute resolution provisions, pt-fi provided formal notice to the indonesian government of an impending dispute listing the government's breaches and violations of the cow as described in the risk factor below pt-fi's cow may be subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel. we cannot predict whether or when pt-fi will be able to resume exporting copper concentrate. for each month of delay in obtaining approval to export, pt-fi's share of production is projected to be reduced by approximately 70 million pounds of copper and 70 thousand ounces of gold. the inability of either pt-fi to export copper concentrate, or pt smelting to export anode slimes or restart operations, for any extended period of time would lead to the 44 table of contents continued suspension of production in indonesia, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position, and could result in asset impairments, inventory write downs, difficulty in meeting covenants under our credit facilities, and a significant reduction in our reported mineral reserves. we also cannot predict whether pt-fi will be successful in reaching a satisfactory agreement on the terms of its long-term mining rights. if pt-fi is unable to reach agreement with the indonesian government on its long-term rights, we may be required to reduce or defer investments in underground development projects, which would have a material adverse effect on our future production, cash flow, results of operations and financial position, and could result in asset impairments, inventory write downs, difficulty in meeting covenants under our credit facilities, and a significant reduction in our reported mineral reserves. in october 2016, a new minister of energy and mineral resources was appointed, and is the fourth person to hold the office since july 2016. we cannot predict what impact the transition will have on the progress or outcome of pt-fi's license and stability agreement negotiations. pt-fi's cow may be subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel. pt-fi's cow was entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. the cow may be subject to termination by the indonesian government if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. recently adopted indonesian laws and regulations conflict with the mining rights established under the cow. although the cow grants to pt-fi the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the cow, government agencies have sought and continue to seek to impose additional restrictions on pt-fi that could affect exploration and operating requirements. for further discussion, refer to the above risk factor "because our grasberg mining operation in indonesia is a significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia." pt-fi's cow requires that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. on february 17, 2017, pursuant to the cow's formal dispute resolution provisions, pt-fi provided formal notice to the indonesian government of an impending dispute listing the government's breaches and violations of the cow, including, but not limited to, the following: restrictions on pt-fi's basic right to export mining products in violation of the cow; imposition of export duties other than those taxes and other charges expressly provided for in the cow; imposition of surface water taxes in excess of the restrictions imposed by the cow (refer to note 12 for further discussion of these assessments); requirement for pt-fi to build a smelter, while such requirements are not contained in the cow; unreasonable withholding and delay in granting approval of two successive ten-year extensions of the term of the cow; and imposition of divestment requirements that are not provided for in the cow. if the dispute is not resolved by june 17, 2017, pt-fi may commence arbitration under the united nations commission on international trade law (uncitral) arbitration rules to enforce all provisions of the cow and seek damages, specifically in respect of the issuance of the january 11, 2017, regulations which are not in accordance with honoring the contractual commitments of the indonesian government and pt-fi under the cow. the arbitration proceedings would take place in jakarta, indonesia, and for limited purposes, would be overseen by the indonesian courts under the indonesian arbitration act. the international arbitration process is complex and could take considerable time to complete and there is no assurance that we will prevail. if we prevail, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of an international arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. additionally, our operations may be materially and adversely affected while resolution of a dispute is pending. 45 table of contents at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the indonesian government prior to may 1998 ( i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt-fi's cow, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the cow will not be challenged for political or other reasons. we will not mine all of our ore reserves in indonesia before the initial term of our cow expires. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and our current mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current cow. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 17 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2016 , representing 22 percent of pt-fi's share of recoverable copper reserves and 33 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve our cow extensions. for further discussion, refer to the above risk factors "because our grasberg mining operation in indonesia is a significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia" and "pt-fi's cow may be subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel." operational risks our mining operations are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. our mines are very large in scale and, by their nature are subject to significant operational risks, some of which are outside of our control, and many of which are not covered fully, or in some cases even partially, by insurance. these operational risks, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flow, include earthquakes, rainstorms, floods, and other natural disasters; equipment failures; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses of our underground mines or tailings impoundments; and lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates. the waste rock (including overburden) and tailings produced in our mining operations represent our largest volume of waste. managing the volume of waste rock and tailings presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks. we maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are effectively large dams that must be engineered, constructed and monitored to assure structural stability and avoid leakages or structural collapse. our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions, and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage at all of our operations. in indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks, as discussed below. the failure of tailings and other impoundments at any of our mining operations could cause severe property and environmental damage and loss of life, and we apply significant financial resources and both internal and external technical resources to the effective, safe management of all those facilities. the importance of careful design, management and monitoring of large impoundments was emphasized in recent years by large scale tailings dam failures at unaffiliated mines, which caused extensive property and environmental damage and resulted in the loss of life. as a member company of the international council on mining and metals (icmm), we intend to augment our existing practices to be consistent with the icmm's tailings governance framework adopted in december 2016 in an effort to reduce the risk of catastrophic failure of tailings storage facilities. labor unrest, activism and civil and religious strife could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately half of our global labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately one third of our global labor force was covered by agreements that have expired and are currently being negotiated or will expire during 2017, including the agreement covering employees at our pt-fi operations in indonesia. labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we 46 table of contents may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. refer to items 1. and 2., "business and properties," for additional information regarding labor matters, and expiration dates of such agreements. we could also experience labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, or lockouts that could adversely affect our operations. for example, in october 2014, a large percentage of grasberg open-pit operators did not report to their scheduled shifts and during third-quarter 2016, pt-fi experienced labor productivity issues and a 10-day work stoppage that began in late september 2016. these labor productivity issues have continued during fourth-quarter 2016 and early 2017, and could be heightened by the workforce reductions that began in february 2017. significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations could significantly reduce our production and sales volumes, which could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. indonesia has long faced separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. several separatist groups have sought increased political independence for the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military. in addition, illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted for years to move them away from our facilities. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our indonesia operations. in 2009, a series of shooting incidents occurred within the pt-fi project area, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations. the shooting incidents have continued on a sporadic basis with the last incident occurring on january 1, 2015. during this time, there were 20 fatalities and 59 injuries to our employees, contractor employees, government security personnel and civilians. to date, no one person or group has claimed responsibility for the shootings. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt-fi continues to work with the indonesian government to address security issues. the investigation of these incidents is ongoing. we also continue to limit the use of the road leading to our mining and milling operations to secured convoys. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our indonesian operations. if other disruptive incidents occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict at this time. our mining operations depend on the availability of secure water supplies. our mining operations require physical availability and secure legal rights to significant quantities of water for mining and ore processing activities, and related support facilities. most of our north and south america mining operations are in areas where competition for water supplies is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on many factors, including our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. in arizona, where our operations use both surface and ground water, we are a participant in an active general stream adjudication in which the arizona courts have been attempting, for over 40 years, to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for the gila river, one of the state's largest river systems, which primarily affects our morenci, safford and sierrita mines. the adjudication is addressing the state law claims of thousands of competing users, including us, as well as significant federal water claims that are potentially adverse to the state law claims of both surface water and groundwater users. groundwater is treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which historically allowed land owners to pump unlimited quantities of subsurface water, subject only to the requirement of putting it to "reasonable use." however, court decisions in the adjudication have concluded that underground water is often hydrologically connected to surface water so that it actually is surface water and is therefore subject to the arizona doctrine of prior appropriation, as a result of which it would be subject to the adjudication and potentially unavailable to groundwater pumpers in the absence of valid surface water claims, which historic groundwater pumpers typically do not have. any re-characterization of groundwater as surface water could affect the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a user of both groundwater and surface water in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceeding. 47 table of contents water for our cerro verde operation in peru comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collects water primarily from seasonal precipitation. as a result of occasional drought conditions, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our cerro verde operations. in january 2016, the peruvian government declared a temporary state of emergency with respect to the water supply in the rio chili basin because of drought conditions. as a result, the cerro verde water rights from the rio chili were temporarily decreased during february 2016. water for our el abra mining operation in chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. the agreement to pump from this aquifer is subject to continued monitoring of the aquifer level to ensure that environmentally sensitive areas are not impacted by our pumping. if impact occurs, we would have to reduce pumping to restore water levels, which could have an adverse effect on production from el abra. although we typically have sufficient water for our indonesian operations, lower rainfall resulting from el ni o weather conditions affected operations in the second half of 2015 and may do so again in the future. although each of our mining operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, as discussed above some supplies are subject to adjudication proceedings, the outcome of which we cannot predict, and the availability of additional supplies that may be required for potential future expansions is uncertain. while we are taking actions to acquire additional back-up water supples, such supplies may not be available at acceptable cost, or at all, so that the loss of a water right or currently available water supply could force us to curtail operations or force premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia mining operations involve additional risks because they are located in very remote areas and on unusually difficult terrain. the grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. these conditions have required us to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. underground mining operations can be particularly dangerous, and in may 2013, a tragic accident, which resulted in 28 fatalities and 10 injuries, occurred at pt-fi when the rock structure above the underground ceiling of a training facility collapsed. pt-fi temporarily suspended mining and processing activities at the grasberg complex to conduct inspections and resumed open-pit mining and concentrating activities on june 24, 2013, and underground operations on july 9, 2013. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. we must continually replace reserves depleted by production, but our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our existing mineral reserves will be depleted over time by production from our operations. because our profits are primarily derived from our mining operations, our ability to replenish our mineral reserves is essential to our long-term success. our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of additional deposits that can be produced profitably. we may not be able to discover, enhance, develop or acquire reserves in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow our current reserve levels, which could negatively affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. consolidated capital expenditures are expected to approximate $1.8 billion for 2017, including $1.1 billion for major projects primarily associated with underground development activities at grasberg and $0.7 billion for sustaining capital. refer to the risk factor "because our grasberg mining operation in indonesia is a significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia" for further discussion of regulatory matters in indonesia that may impact future investments in pt-fi's underground development projects. 48 table of contents there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects. the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, estimated capital and operating costs, and estimated future prices of the relevant commodity. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or timing can adversely affect project economics. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. the actual costs, production rates and economic returns of our development projects may differ materially from our estimates, which may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. our operations are subject to extensive regulations, some of which require permits and other approvals. these regulations increase our costs and in some circumstances may delay or suspend our operations. our operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that are subject to change and to changing interpretation by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with broad supervisory authority. as a natural resource company, compliance with environmental legal requirements is an integral and costly part of our business. for additional information, see "environmental risks" below. we are also subject to extensive regulation of worker health and safety, including the requirements of the u.s. occupational safety and health act and similar laws of other jurisdictions. in the u.s., the operation of our mines is subject to regulation by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. msha inspects our mines on a regular basis and issues citations and orders when it believes a violation has occurred. if such inspections result in an alleged violation, we may be subject to fines and penalties and, in instances of alleged significant violations, our mining operations could be subject to temporary or extended closures. many other governmental bodies regulate other aspects of our operations, and our failure to comply with these legal requirements can result in substantial penalties. in addition, new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations by courts or regulatory authorities occur regularly, but are difficult to predict. any such variations could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. our business may be adversely affected by information technology disruptions. cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency, evolving in nature and include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks. however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. environmental risks our operations are subject to complex, evolving and increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations. compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain existing operations or expansion opportunities. our operations, both in the u.s. and internationally, are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations governing the generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances; solid waste disposal; air emissions; wastewater discharges; remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, including mine closures and reclamation; well plug and abandonment requirements; protection of endangered and protected species and designation of critical habitats; and other related matters. in addition, we must obtain regulatory permits and approvals to start, continue and expand operations. our miami, arizona smelter processes approximately half of the aggregate copper concentrate produced by our north america copper mines. epa regulations require us to invest in new pollution control equipment to reduce sulfur dioxide (so 2 ) to meet both regional haze requirements and to allow the state of arizona to demonstrate compliance with epa's so 2 ambient air quality standards. the deadline for the smelter to install the so 2 pollution 49 table of contents control equipment to comply with the regional haze rules is january 1, 2018. arizona regulators have promulgated rules for complying with the national ambient air quality standards, which must be approved by the epa to become effective, but it is possible that they will be effective prior to january 1, 2018. in order to meet both regulatory requirements, we expect capital expenditures to approximate $250 million, and we expect those expenditures to be made through 2018. if these expenditures are delayed or deferred for technical, financial or any other reasons, we may be forced to curtail production at the miami smelter, which would require us to export concentrate rather than process it ourselves and to purchase sulphuric acid that would otherwise be generated during the smelting process, which would result in increased production costs. laws such as cercla and similar state laws may expose us to joint and several liability for environmental damages caused by our operations, or by previous owners or operators of properties we acquired or are currently operating or at sites where we sent materials for processing, recycling or disposal. as discussed in more detail in the next risk factor, we have substantial obligations for environmental remediation on mining properties previously owned or operated by fmc and certain of its affiliates. noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in material penalties or other liabilities. in addition, compliance with these laws may from time to time result in delays in or changes to our development or expansion plans. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. new or revised environmental regulatory requirements are frequently proposed, many of which result in substantially increased costs for our business, including those regarding financial assurance in the financial risk factor above. in addition, in 2015, the epa promulgated rules that could reclassify certain mineral processing materials as "hazardous waste" under the federal resource conservation and recovery act and subject the industry to significant new and costly waste management requirements. these rules are currently being challenged by multiple parties in court; however, if the legal challenges are unsuccessful, and the regulatory agencies reclassify certain mineral processing materials as hazardous waste," costs at our u.s. copper and molybdenum processing facilities could materially increase. the epa has also adopted rules that bring remote tributaries into the regulatory definition of waters of the united states that are protected by the clean water act, thereby imposing significant additional restrictions on waterway discharges and land uses, and is in many ways aggressively attempting to expand its regulatory authority over air quality, water quality and solid wastes, among other things. these rules are being litigated by multiple parties. regulations are also being considered at various governmental levels to increase federal financial responsibility requirements both for mine closure and reclamation and for oil and gas decommissioning, and to increase regulation of or prohibit hydraulic fracturing. adoption of these or similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs, threaten certain operating activities and constrain our expansion opportunities. in february 2016, the department of the interior's fish &amp; wildlife service (fws) adopted final rules that broaden the regulatory definitions of "critical habitat" and "destruction or adverse modification," both of which are integral to the fws's implementation of the endangered species act, which protects federally-listed endangered and threatened species. the new rules increase fws's discretion to limit uses of land and water courses that may become suitable habitat for listed species in the future, or that are occasionally used by protected species. the new rules may limit the ability of landowners, including us, to obtain federal permits or authorizations needed for expansion of our operations, and may also affect our ability to obtain, retain or deliver water to some operations. we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations totaling $0.4 billion in each of 2016, 2015 and 2014. for 2017 , we expect to incur approximately $0.6 billion of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs, which includes expenditures for the miami smelter pollution control equipment discussed above. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation and plug and abandonment activities, the settlement of environmental matters and the rate at which actual spending occurs on continuing matters. 50 table of contents we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. fmc and its subsidiaries, and many of their affiliates and predecessor companies, have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies fully understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for remediating hazardous substances released into the environment from properties owned or operated by them as well as properties where they arranged for disposal of such substances, irrespective of when the release to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often asserted on a joint and several basis with other prior and subsequent owners, operators and arrangers, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is, and each arranger may be, held fully responsible for the remediation, although in many cases some or all of the other responsible parties no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are potentially responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2016 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects in 26 u.s. states. in addition, fmc and certain affiliates and predecessor companies were parties to agreements relating to the transfer of businesses or properties that contained indemnification provisions relating to environmental matters, and from time to time these provisions become the source of claims against us. at december 31, 2016 , we had $1.2 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributable to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of operating facilities. our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases occurred many decades ago; our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. in addition, remediation standards imposed by the epa and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time and may become even more stringent in the future. imposition of more stringent remediation standards, particularly for arsenic and lead in soils, poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at our active remediation sites and at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. refer to note 12 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the 51 table of contents ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesian government, uses the unnavigable river system in the highlands near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. in addition, overburden stockpiles are subject to erosion caused by the large amounts of rainfall, with the eroded stockpile material eventually being deposited in the lowlands tailings management area; this additional material, while predicted in our environmental studies, influences the deposition of finer tailings material in the estuary. from time to time, certain indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than the river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties, we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, and our revenues include sales of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, and other carbon-based energy products. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. as a result of the paris agreement reached during the 21 st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in 2015, a number of governments have pledged "nationally determined contributions" to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in the u.s., epa has finalized regulations governing greenhouse gas emissions from new, modified, and existing power plants. while these rules are being challenged in court, increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may increase our costs. other risks our holding company structure may impact our ability to service debt and our stockholders ' ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock and intercompany receivables of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. cash at our international operations is also typically subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us or repay loans to us, to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are parties to credit agreements that restrict their ability to make distributions or loan repayments to us if such subsidiary is in default under such agreements, to repay any subordinated loan we may make to such subsidiary unless specified conditions are met, or to transfer substantially all of the assets of such subsidiary without the consent of the lenders. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. 52 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize the board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the board. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders.risk factors 37 risk factors. copper copper is an internationally traded commodity, and its prices are determined by the major metals exchanges the london metal exchange (lme), new york mercantile exchange (nymex) and shanghai futures exchange. prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide balance of copper supply and demand, and can be volatile and cyclical. during 2017 , the lme spot copper price averaged $2.80 per pound, ranging from a low of $2.48 per pound to a high of $3.27 per pound, and was $3.25 per pound at december 31, 2017 . in general, demand for copper reflects the rate of underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and construction. according to wood mackenzie, a widely followed independent metals market consultant, copper's end-use markets (and their estimated shares of total consumption) are construction (30 percent), consumer products (24 percent), electrical applications (24 percent), transportation (12 percent) and industrial machinery (10 percent). we believe copper will continue to be essential in these basic uses as well as contribute significantly to new technologies for energy efficiencies, to advance communications and to enhance public health. examples of areas we believe will require additional copper in the future include: (i) high efficiency motors, which consume up to 75 percent more copper than a standard motor; (ii) electric vehicles, which consume up to four times the amount of copper in terms of weight compared to vehicles of similar size with an internal combustion engine, and require copper-intensive charging station infrastructure to refuel; and (iii) renewable energy 3 table of contents such as wind and solar, which consume four to five times the amount of copper compared to traditional fossil fuel generated power. gold gold is used for jewelry, coinage and bullion as well as various industrial and electronic applications. gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world. benchmark prices are generally based on london bullion market association (london) quotations. during 2017 , the london pm gold price averaged $1,257 per ounce, ranging from a low of $1,151 per ounce to a high of $1,346 per ounce, and was $1,297 per ounce at december 31, 2017 . molybdenum molybdenum is a key alloying element in steel and the raw material for several chemical-grade products used in catalysts, lubrication, smoke suppression, corrosion inhibition and pigmentation. molybdenum, as a high-purity metal, is also used in electronics such as flat-panel displays and in super alloys used in aerospace. reference prices for molybdenum are available in several publications, including metals week, cru report and metal bulletin . during 2017 , the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $8.21 per pound, ranging from a low of $6.98 per pound to a high of $10.15 per pound, and was $10.15 per pound at december 31, 2017 . products and sales fcx's consolidated revenues for 2017 primarily included sales of copper ( 74 percent ), gold ( 12 percent ) and molybdenum ( 5 percent ). copper concentrate sales to pt smelting totaled 12 percent of fcx's consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017 . refer to note 16 for a summary of our consolidated revenues and operating income (loss) by business segment and geographic area. copper products we are one of the world's leading producers of copper concentrate, cathode and continuous cast copper rod. during 2017 , 59 percent of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, 19 percent as cathode and 22 percent as rod from north america operations. the copper ore from our mines is generally processed either by smelting and refining or by solution extraction and electrowinning (sx/ew). before being subject to the smelting and refining process, ore is crushed and treated to produce a copper concentrate with copper content of approximately 20 to 30 percent. copper concentrate is then smelted ( i.e. , subjected to extreme heat) to produce copper anode, which weighs between 800 and 900 pounds and has an average copper content of 99.5 percent. the anode is further treated by electrolytic refining to produce copper cathode, which weighs between 100 and 350 pounds and has an average copper content of 99.99 percent. for ore subject to the sx/ew process, the ore is placed on stockpiles and copper is extracted from the ore by dissolving it with a weak sulphuric acid solution. the copper content of the solution is increased in two additional solution-extraction stages, and then the copper-bearing solution undergoes an electrowinning process to produce cathode that is, on average, 99.99 percent copper. our copper cathode is used as the raw material input for copper rod, brass mill products and for other uses. copper concentrate . we produce copper concentrate at six of our mines. in north america, copper concentrate is produced at the morenci, bagdad, sierrita and chino mines, and a significant portion is shipped to our miami smelter in arizona. copper concentrate is also produced at the cerro verde mine in peru and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. copper cathode . we produce copper cathode at our electrolytic refinery located in el paso, texas, and at nine of our mines. sx/ew cathode is produced from the morenci, bagdad, safford, sierrita, miami, chino and tyrone mines in north america, and from the cerro verde and el abra mines in south america . copper cathode is also produced at atlantic copper (our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in spain) and pt smelting (pt-fi's 25-percent-owned copper smelter and refinery in indonesia). refer to mining operations - smelting facilities and other mining properties for further discussion of atlantic copper and pt smelting. continuous cast copper rod . we manufacture continuous cast copper rod at our facilities in el paso, texas; norwich, connecticut; and miami, arizona, primarily using copper cathode produced at our north america copper mines. 4 table of contents copper sales north america . the majority of the copper produced at our north america copper mines and refined in our el paso, texas, refinery is consumed at our rod plants. the remainder of our north america copper production is sold in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate under u.s. dollar-denominated annual contracts. cathode and rod contract prices are generally based on the prevailing commodity exchange inc. (comex - a division of nymex) monthly average spot price for the month of shipment and include a premium. generally, copper rod is sold to wire and cable manufacturers, while cathode is sold to rod, brass or tube fabricators. during 2017 , 21 percent of our north america mines' copper concentrate sales volumes were shipped to atlantic copper. south america . production from our south america mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under u.s. dollar-denominated, annual and multi-year contracts. during 2017 , our south america mines sold approximately 79 percent of their copper production in concentrate and 21 percent as cathode. during 2017 , seven percent of our south america mines' copper concentrate sales volumes were shipped to atlantic copper. substantially all of south america's copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices. revenues from south america's concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties and treatment charges ( i.e., fees paid to smelters that are generally negotiated annually). in addition, because a portion of the metals contained in copper concentrate is unrecoverable from the smelting process, revenues from south america's concentrate sales are also recorded net of allowances for unrecoverable metals, which are a negotiated term of the contracts and vary by customer. indonesia . pt-fi sells its production in the form of copper concentrate, which contains significant quantities of gold and silver, primarily under u.s. dollar-denominated, long-term contracts. pt-fi also sells a small amount of copper concentrate in the spot market. following is a summary of pt-fi's aggregate percentage concentrate sales to third parties, pt smelting and atlantic copper for the years ended december 31: 2017 2016 2015 third parties 54 % 56 % 61 % pt smelting 46 42 37 atlantic copper 2 2 100 % 100 % 100 % substantially all of pt-fi's concentrate sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average spot copper prices. revenues from pt-fi's concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties, export duties, treatment charges and allowances for unrecoverable metals. gold products and sales we produce gold almost exclusively from the grasberg minerals district. gold is primarily sold as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes, which are a product of the smelting and refining process at atlantic copper. gold generally is priced at the average london price for a specified month near the month of shipment. revenues from gold sold as a component of our copper concentrate are recorded net of treatment and refining charges. revenues from gold sold in slimes are recorded net of refining charges. molybdenum products and sales we are the world's largest producer of molybdenum and molybdenum-based chemicals. in addition to production from the henderson and climax molybdenum mines, we produce molybdenum concentrate at certain of the north america copper mines and the cerro verde copper mine in peru. the majority of our molybdenum concentrate is processed in our own conversion facilities. our molybdenum sales are primarily priced based on the average published metals week price for the month prior to the month of shipment. 5 labor matters at december 31, 2017 , we employed approximately 25,200 people (11,000 in north america, 7,000 in indonesia, 5,800 in south america and 1,400 in europe and other locations). we also had contractors that employ personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 21,100 at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia, 3,800 in north america, 2,500 at our south america mining operations and 600 in europe and other locations. employees represented by unions at december 31, 2017 , are listed below, with the number of employees represented and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements: location number of unions number of union- represented employees expiration date pt-fi indonesia 2 5,009 september 2019 cerro verde peru 1 3,176 august 2018 el abra chile 2 614 april 2020 atlantic copper spain 2 445 march 2018 a kokkola - finland b 3 403 november 2020 rotterdam the netherlands 1 59 september 2018 kisanfu africa exploration b 2 56 n/a c stowmarket - united kingdom 1 40 may 2020 a. the collective labor agreement between atlantic copper and its workers' unions expired in december 2015, but has been extended through march 2018 by mutual agreement from both parties in accordance with spanish law. b. these locations are held for sale at december 31, 2017 (refer to note 2 for further discussion). c. the collective labor agreement between kisanfu and its unions has no expiration date, but can be amended at any time in accordance with an established process. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further information on labor matters. environmental and reclamation matters the cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations is fundamental to and a substantial cost of our business. for information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to item 1a. risk factors and notes 1 and 12 . competition the top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately 45 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. we currently rank second among those producers, with approximately seven percent of estimated total worldwide mined copper production. our competitive position is based on the size, quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. we have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies, and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. the metals markets are cyclical, and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce, and to manage our costs. 6 table of contents mining operations following are maps and descriptions of our mining operations in north america (including both copper and molybdenum operations), south america and indonesia. north america in the u.s., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, sx/ew facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is generally owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. certain portions of our bagdad, sierrita, miami, chino, tyrone, henderson and climax operations are located on government-owned land and are operated under a mine plan of operations or other use permit. various federal and state permits or leases on government land are held for purposes incidental to mine operations. morenci we own a 72 percent undivided interest in morenci, with the remaining 28 percent owned by sumitomo metal mining arizona, inc. (15 percent) and smm morenci, inc. (13 percent). each partner takes in kind its share of morenci's production. morenci is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. morenci is located in greenlee county, arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of safford on u.s. highway 191. the site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur. the morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide. the morenci operation consists of two concentrators capable of milling 115,000 metric tons of ore per day, which produce copper and molybdenum concentrate; a 68,000 metric ton-per-day, crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a low-grade run-of-mine (rom) leaching system; four sx plants; and three ew tank houses that produce copper cathode. total ew tank house capacity is approximately 900 million pounds of copper per year. during second-quarter 2015, morenci's concentrate leach, direct-electrowinning facility (which was placed on care-and-maintenance status in early 2009) resumed operation. morenci's available mining fleet consists of one hundred and eleven 236-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 13 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 57 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 815,000 metric tons of material per day. the morenci mill expansion project, which achieved full rates in second-quarter 2015, expanded mill capacity from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day. morenci's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 12 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 , 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 , and 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 . morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 840 meters above sea level. the morenci operation encompasses approximately 68,355 acres, comprising 51,165 acres of patented 7 table of contents mining claims and other fee lands, 14,470 acres of unpatented mining claims and 2,720 acres of land held by state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-way. the morenci operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility in deming, new mexico. although we believe the morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the morenci operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. bagdad our wholly owned bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in yavapai county in west-central arizona. it is approximately 60 miles west of prescott and 100 miles northwest of phoenix. the property can be reached by arizona highway 96, which ends at the town of bagdad. the closest railroad is at hillside, arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on arizona highway 96. the open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings. the bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite. the bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, an sx/ew plant that can produce up to 32 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure-leach plant to process molybdenum concentrate. the available mining fleet consists of thirty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 250,000 metric tons of material per day. bagdad's production totaled 173 million pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 , 177 million pounds of copper and 8 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 , and 210 million pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 . bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 310 meters above sea level. the bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,750 acres, comprising 21,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 600 acres of unpatented mining claims. bagdad receives electrical power from arizona public service company. we believe the bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations. 8 table of contents safford our wholly owned safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in graham county, arizona, approximately 8 miles north of the town of safford and 170 miles east of phoenix. the site is accessible by paved county road off u.s. highway 70. the safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite. the property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathode. the operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. the crushed ore is delivered to leach pads by a series of overland and portable conveyors. leach solutions feed a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. a sulfur burner plant is also in operation at safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in sx/ew operations. the available mining fleet consists of sixteen 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 225,000 metric tons of material per day. safford's copper production totaled 150 million pounds in 2017 , 230 million pounds in 2016 and 202 million pounds in 2015 . through exploration drilling, we have identified a significant resource at our wholly owned lone star project located near the safford operation. we have commenced a project to develop the lone star oxide ores with first production expected by the end of 2020. total estimated capital costs for the project, including mine equipment and pre-production stripping, approximates $850 million and will benefit from the utilization of existing infrastructure at the safford operation. production from the lone star oxides is expected to average approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year with an approximate 20-year mine life. the project also advances the potential for development of a larger-scale district opportunity. we are conducting additional drilling as we continue to evaluate longer term opportunities available from the significant sulfide potential in the safford/lone star minerals district. safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. the safford operation encompasses approximately 25,000 acres, comprising 21,000 acres of patented lands, 3,950 acres of unpatented lands and 50 acres of land held by federal permit. the safford operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility. although we believe the safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the safford operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 9 table of contents sierrita our wholly owned sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in pima county, arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of tucson and 7 miles west of the town of green valley and interstate highway 19. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. the sierrita operation includes a 100,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate. sierrita also produces copper from a rom oxide-leaching system. cathode copper is plated at the twin buttes ew facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. the sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. the molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. the available mining fleet consists of twenty-two 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 175,000 metric tons of material per day. sierrita's production totaled 160 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 , 162 million pounds of copper and 14 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 , and 189 million pounds of copper and 21 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 . sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. the sierrita operation, including the adjacent twin buttes site (refer to smelting facilities and other mining properties for further discussion), encompasses approximately 37,650 acres, comprising 13,300 acres of patented mining claims and 24,350 acres of split-estate lands. sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the tucson electric power company. although we believe the sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the sierrita operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 10 table of contents miami our wholly owned miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in gila county, arizona, approximately 90 miles east of phoenix and 6 miles west of the city of globe on u.s. highway 60. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. since about 1915, the miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. the design capacity of the sx/ew plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. miami is no longer mining ore, but currently produces copper through leaching material already placed on stockpiles, which is expected to continue until 2022. miami's copper production totaled 19 million pounds in 2017 , 25 million pounds in 2016 and 43 million pounds in 2015 . miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the pit bottom has an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. the miami operation encompasses approximately 9,100 acres, comprising 8,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 350 acres of unpatented mining claims. miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the salt river project and natural gas through long-term contracts with el paso natural gas as the transporter. we believe the miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations. chino and tyrone chino our wholly owned chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in grant county, new mexico, approximately 15 miles east of the town of silver city off of state highway 180. the mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. chino has been in operation since 1910. 11 table of contents the chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. there is leachable oxide, secondary sulfide and millable primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides. the chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, and a 150 million pound-per-year sx/ew plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by rom leaching. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 42 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 235,000 metric tons of material per day. chino's copper production totaled 215 million pounds in 2017 , 308 million pounds in 2016 and 314 million pounds in 2015 . chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,500 meters above sea level. the chino operation encompasses approximately 118,600 acres, comprising 113,200 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 5,400 acres of unpatented mining claims. chino receives power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations. tyrone our wholly owned tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. it is located in grant county, new mexico, approximately 10 miles south of silver city, new mexico, along state highway 90. the site is accessible by paved road and by rail. the tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite, with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla. copper processing facilities consist of a sx/ew operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathode per year. the available mining fleet consists of seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by one shovel with a bucket size of 47 cubic meters, which is capable of moving an average of 49,000 metric tons of material per day. tyrone's copper production totaled 61 million pounds in 2017 , 76 million pounds in 2016 and 84 million pounds in 2015 . tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. the tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 16,450 acres of unpatented mining claims. tyrone receives electrical power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe the tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. 12 table of contents henderson and climax henderson our wholly owned henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of denver, colorado, off u.s. highway 40. nearby communities include the towns of empire, georgetown and idaho springs. the henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from colorado state highway 9. the henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the continental divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. the tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill. the henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 35 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our fort madison, iowa, processing facility. the available underground mining equipment fleet consists of seventeen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (lhd) units and seven 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles. in response to market conditions, the henderson molybdenum mine operated at reduced rates during 2017 and 2016. henderson's molybdenum production totaled 12 million pounds in 2017 , 10 million pounds in 2016 and 25 million pounds in 2015 . the henderson mine is located in a mountainous region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. the main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,900 acres, comprising 11,850 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and a 50-acre easement with the u.s. forest service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor. henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. climax our wholly owned climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of leadville, colorado, off colorado state highway 91 at the top of fremont pass. the mine is accessible by paved roads . the climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the climax open-pit mine includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. climax has the capacity to produce approximately 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the available mining fleet consists of nine 177-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two hydraulic shovels with bucket sizes of 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 90,000 metric tons of material per day. 13 table of contents molybdenum production from climax totaled 20 million pounds in 2017 , 16 million pounds in 2016 and 23 million pounds in 2015 . the climax mine is located in a mountainous region. the highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the operations encompass approximately 14,350 acres, consisting primarily of patented mining claims and other fee lands. climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with andarko energy and bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. south america at our operations in south america, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. the claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements. cerro verde we have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in cerro verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by smm cerro verde netherlands b.v. (21.0 percent), compa ia de minas buenaventura s.a.a. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the lima stock exchange (5.86 percent). cerro verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of arequipa, peru. the site is accessible by paved highway. cerro verde's copper cathode and concentrate production that is not sold locally is transported approximately 70 miles by truck and by rail to the port of matarani for shipment to international markets. the cerro verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper pitch. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. cerro verde's operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 360,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator and sx/ew leaching facilities. leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a rom leach system. this sx/ew leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. the cerro verde expansion project commenced operations in september 2015. the project expanded the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day. cerro verde's expanded operations benefit from its large-scale, long-lived reserves and cost efficiencies. 14 table of contents the available fleet consists of twenty 290-metric ton haul trucks and ninety-three 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by ten electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 57 cubic meters and two hydraulic shovels with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters. this fleet is capable of moving an average of approximately 910,000 metric tons of material per day. cerro verde's production totaled 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 27 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 , 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 21 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 , and 545 million pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of molybdenum in 2015 . cerro verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 2,750 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,570 meters above sea level. the peruvian general mining law and cerro verde's mining stability agreement grant the surface rights of mining concessions located on government land. additional government land, if obtained after 1997, must be leased or purchased. cerro verde has a mining concession covering approximately 178,000 acres, including access to 14,500 acres granted through an easement from the regional government of arequipa, plus 212 acres of owned property, and 367 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area. cerro verde receives electrical power, including hydro-generated power, under long-term contracts with kallpa generaci n sa, electroperu and engie energia peru s.a. water for our cerro verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. in 2015, cerro verde completed the construction of a wastewater treatment plant that intercepts raw sewage that would otherwise be discharged into the rio chili and processes it for both use at the cerro verde mine and for recharge of treated water into the rio chili. we believe the cerro verde operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. el abra we own a 51 percent interest in el abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise corporaci n nacional del cobre de chile (codelco). el abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of calama in chile's el loa province, region ii. the site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. the el abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. the predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. there is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization as chalcocite. the oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. there are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite. the el abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized rom leaching operation. the available fleet consists of twenty-two 266-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 29 to 41 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 214,000 metric tons of material per day. 15 table of contents el abra's copper production totaled 173 million pounds in 2017 , 220 million pounds in 2016 and 324 million pounds in 2015 . beginning in the second half of 2015, el abra operated at reduced rates to achieve lower operating and labor costs, defer capital expenditures and extend the life of the existing operations. el abra is expected to operate at full capacity during 2018. we continue to evaluate a major expansion at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. exploration results in recent years at el abra indicate a significant sulfide resource, which could potentially support a major mill project similar to facilities recently constructed at cerro verde. future investments will be dependent on technical studies, which are being advanced, economic factors and market conditions. el abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,430 meters above sea level. el abra controls a total of approximately 151,300 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. in addition, el abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the salar de ascot n aquifer. el abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with engie energia chile s.a. water for our el abra processing operations comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. we believe el abra has sufficient water rights and regulatory approvals to support current operations. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors. indonesia ownership . pt-fi is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the republic of indonesia. we directly own 81.28 percent of the outstanding common stock of pt-fi and indirectly own 9.36 percent through our wholly owned subsidiary, pt indocopper investama. in late 2017, the indonesian government transferred its 9.36 percent ownership interest in pt-fi to pt indonesia asahan aluminium (inalum), a state-owned enterprise that is owned 100 percent by the indonesian government. pt-fi has an unincorporated joint venture with rio tinto, under which rio tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2022 in block a of pt-fi's contract of work (cow), and after 2022, a 40 percent interest in all production from block a. the block a area is where all of pt-fi's proven and probable mineral reserves and all of its current mining operations are located. refer to note 3 for further discussion of the joint venture agreement. 16 table of contents contract of work . pt-fi conducts its current exploration and mining operations in indonesia through a cow with the indonesian government. the cow governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 foreign capital investment law, which expresses indonesia's foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. specifically, the cow provides that the indonesian government will not nationalize or expropriate pt-fi's mining operations. any disputes regarding the provisions of the cow are subject to international arbitration. pt-fi's original cow was entered into in 1967 and was replaced by the current cow in 1991. the initial term of the current cow expires in 2021, but the cow explicitly provides that it can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the cow cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. the cow allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre block a area. under the cow, pt-fi has rights to conduct exploration activities in the block b area currently covering 502,000 acres. under the cow, pt-fi pays royalties on copper, gold and silver in the concentrate it sells. a large part of the mineral royalties under indonesian government regulations is designated to the provinces from which the minerals are extracted. in connection with its fourth concentrator mill expansion completed in 1998, pt-fi agreed to pay the indonesian government additional royalties, which were not required by the cow, to provide further support to the local governments and to the people of the indonesian province of papua. additionally, under a memorandum of understanding (mou) entered into with the indonesian government in july 2014, pt-fi agreed to increase royalty rates. pt-fi's royalties totaled $173 million in 2017 , $131 million in 2016 and $114 million in 2015 . refer to note 13 for further discussion of pt-fi's royalty rates. regulatory matters . following the issuance of new regulations by the indonesian government in early 2017 (which resulted in a temporary suspension of pt-fi's concentrate exports), pt-fi entered into a mou in april 2017 confirming that the cow would continue to be valid and honored until replaced by a mutually agreed iupk and investment stability agreement. following a framework understanding reached in august 2017, the parties have been engaged in negotiation and documentation of a special mining license (iupk) and accompanying documentation for assurances on legal and fiscal terms to replace the cow while providing pt-fi with long-term mining rights through 2041. in addition, the iupk would provide that pt-fi construct a smelter within five years of reaching a definitive agreement and include agreement for the divestment of 51 percent of the project area interests to indonesian participants at fair market value. the parties continue to negotiate documentation on a comprehensive agreement for pt-fi's extended operations and to reach agreement on timing, process and governance matters relating to the divestment, with a mutual objective of completing negotiations and the required documentation during the first half of 2018. in december 2017, pt-fi was granted an extension of its temporary iupk through june 30, 2018, to enable exports to continue while negotiations on a definitive agreement proceed. in february 2018, pt-fi received an extension of its export license through february 15, 2019. until a definitive agreement is reached, pt-fi has reserved all rights under its cow, including dispute resolution procedures. we cannot predict whether pt-fi will be successful in reaching a satisfactory agreement on the terms of its long-term mining rights. if pt-fi is unable to reach a definitive agreement with the indonesian government on its long-term mining rights, we intend to reduce or defer investments significantly in underground development projects and will pursue dispute resolution procedures under the cow. refer to note 13 and item 1a. risk factors for further discussion of these regulatory matters and risks associated with operations in indonesia. grasberg minerals district . pt-fi operates in the remote highlands of the sudirman mountain range in the province of papua, indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of new guinea. we and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in block a since 1967. the grasberg minerals district has three operating mines, the grasberg open pit, the deep ore zone (doz) underground mine and the big gossan underground mine. in september 2015, pt-fi initiated pre-commercial production, which represents ore extracted during the development phase for the purpose of obtaining access to the ore body, at the deep mill level zone (dmlz) underground mine. 17 table of contents as further discussed in md&amp;a, pt-fi also has several projects in progress in the grasberg minerals district related to the development of the large-scale, long-lived, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the grasberg open pit. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to produce large-scale quantities of copper and gold following the transition from the grasberg open pit. substantial progress has been made to prepare for the transition to mining of the grasberg block cave underground mine. mine development activities are sufficiently advanced to commence caving in early 2019. the ore flow system and underground rail line are expected to be installed during 2018. pt-fi's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 1.6 million ounces of gold in 2017 , 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.1 million ounces of gold in 2016 , and 752 million pounds of copper and 1.2 million ounces of gold in 2015 . our principal source of power for all our indonesian operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. a combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. our indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. grasberg open pit pt-fi began open-pit mining of the grasberg ore body in 1990 and is currently mining the final phase of the grasberg open pit, which contains high copper and gold ore grades. pt-fi expects to mine high-grade ore over the next several quarters prior to transitioning to the grasberg block cave underground mine in the first half of 2019. production from the ore stockpiles, which are located outside of the pit limits, is expected to continue through the end of 2019. production in the open pit is currently at the 3,200- to 3,400-meter elevation level and totaled 37 million metric tons of ore in 2017 , which provided 72 percent of pt-fi's 2017 mill feed. the current open-pit equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. the larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 99 haul trucks with payloads of 218 metric tons and 15 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 42 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 340,000 metric tons of material per day. crushing and conveying systems are integral to the grasberg mine and provide the capacity to transport more than 250,000 metric tons of ore per day. ore milled from the grasberg open pit averaged 101,800 metric tons per day in 2017 , 119,700 metric tons per day in 2016 and 115,900 metric tons per day in 2015 . doz underground mine the doz ore body lies vertically below the now depleted intermediate ore zone. pt-fi began production from the doz ore body in 1989 using open-stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the grasberg open pit. production resumed in september 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level. the doz is a mature block-cave mine that previously operated at 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. current operating rates from the doz underground mine are driven by the value of the incremental doz ore grade compared to the ore from the grasberg open pit and ore grade material from the development of the dmlz and grasberg block cave underground mines. ore milled from the doz underground mine averaged 31,200 metric tons of ore per day in 2017, 38,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2016 and 43,700 metric tons of ore per day in 2015. production at the doz underground mine is expected to continue through 2021. the doz mine fleet consists of 159 pieces of mobile equipment. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 45 lhd units and 22 haul trucks. each production lhd unit typically carries approximately 11 metric tons of ore. using ore passes and chutes, the lhd units transfer ore into 55-metric ton capacity haul trucks. the trucks dump into two gyratory crushers, and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. the success of the development of the doz mine, one of the world's largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of pt-fi's large-scale, underground ore bodies. 18 table of contents dmlz underground mine the dmlz ore body lies below the doz underground mine at the 2,590-meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the ertsberg east skarn system and neighboring ertsberg porphyry. ore milled from the dmlz underground mine averaged 3,200 metric tons of ore per day in 2017 , 4,400 metric tons per day in 2016, and 2,900 metric tons per day in 2015. during 2017 and late january 2018, the dmlz underground mine was impacted by mining-induced seismic activity, which is not uncommon in block cave mining. to mitigate the impact of these events, pt-fi implemented a revised mine sequence; upgraded support systems, blasting and re-entry protocols; and improved mine monitoring and analysis processes. development activities and mining are taking place in unaffected areas while impacted areas are being assessed, rehabilitated and prepared to be placed back into use. targeted production rates once the dmlz underground mine reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2021. production at the dmlz underground mine is expected to continue through 2041. the dmlz mine fleet consists of over 230 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 27 lhd units and 15 haul trucks used in production and development activities. big gossan underground mine the big gossan underground mine was on care-and-maintenance status during most of 2017 and production restarted in fourth-quarter 2017 . the big gossan mine lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. it is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. the mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. the crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. the belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. the big gossan mine fleet consists of over 72 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 9 lhd units and 9 haul trucks used in development and production activities. description of ore bodies . our indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the grasberg monzodiorite and the ertsberg diorite. the host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the sudirman range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. the igneous-hosted ore bodies (the grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the doz block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. the sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the doz and all of the big gossan) occur as magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. the copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district's ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. these gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. 19 table of contents the following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported indonesia ore bodies. the following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported indonesia ore bodies and their locations. 20 table of contents smelting facilities and other mining properties atlantic copper . our wholly owned atlantic copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the huelva, spain, port authorities, which are scheduled to expire in 2027. the design capacity of the smelter is approximately 295,000 metric tons of copper per year, and the refinery has a capacity of 285,000 metric tons of copper per year. atlantic copper produced 283,100 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 271,400 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2017 ; 296,900 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 285,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2016; and 293,100 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 284,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2015. following is a summary of atlantic copper's concentrate purchases from third parties and our copper mining operations for the years ended december 31: 2017 2016 2015 third parties 67 % 77 % 71 % north america copper mines 18 13 23 south america mining 15 7 3 indonesia mining 3 3 100 % 100 % 100 % atlantic copper's major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with shorter-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. atlantic copper completed a 68-day major maintenance turnaround in 2013 and a 27-day maintenance turnaround in 2017. the next 14-day maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2019. pt smelting . pt-fi's cow required us to construct, or cause to be constructed, a smelter in indonesia if we and the indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. in 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of pt smelting, an indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia. pt smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. pt-fi owns 25 percent of pt smelting, with the remainder owned by mitsubishi materials corporation (60.5 percent), mitsubishi corporation rtm japan ltd. (9.5 percent) and jx nippon mining &amp; metals corporation (5 percent). pt-fi's contract with pt smelting requires pt-fi to supply 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (at market rates subject to a minimum or maximum treatment charge rate) necessary for pt smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. pt-fi may also sell copper concentrate to pt smelting at market rates for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. pt-fi supplied 93 percent of pt smelting's concentrate requirements in 2017, 88 percent in 2016 and 80 percent in 2015. in early 2017, the indonesian government issued new regulations to address exports of unrefined metals, including copper concentrate and anode slimes, and other matters related to the mining sector. these regulations permit the export of anode slimes, which is necessary for pt smelting to continue operating. as a result of labor disturbances and a delay in the renewal of its export license for anode slimes, pt smelting's operations were shut down from mid-january 2017 until early march 2017. in march 2017, pt smelting's anode slimes export license was renewed through march 1, 2018 . on february 15, 2018, pt smelting submitted an application to renew its export license. pt smelting produced 245,800 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 247,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2017 ; 255,700 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 241,700 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2016; and 199,700 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 198,400 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2015. following a temporary suspension in july 2015, pt smelting operated at approximately 80 percent capacity from september 2015 to november 2015 when required repairs of an acid plant cooling tower that was damaged during the suspension were completed. pt smelting's maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. pt smelting completed a 25-day maintenance turnaround during 2016, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for third-quarter 2018. miami smelter . we own and operate a smelter at our miami mining operation in arizona. the smelter has been operating for approximately 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new 21 table of contents technologies, improve production and comply with air quality requirements. the miami smelter has completed the installation of emission control equipment that will allow it to operate in compliance with air quality standards effective in 2018 (refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion). the miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our north america copper mines. concentrate processed through the smelter totaled 612,600 metric tons in 2017 , 673,300 metric tons in 2016 and 686,700 metric tons in 2015. in addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrate, the miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our north america leaching operations. major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) are anticipated to occur approximately every three years for the miami smelter, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. the miami smelter completed a major maintenance turnaround in second-quarter 2017, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2020. rod &amp; refining operations . our rod &amp; refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in north america, including a refinery in el paso, texas; rod mills in el paso, texas, norwich, connecticut, and miami, arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in bayway, new jersey. we refine our copper anode production from our miami smelter at our el paso refinery. the el paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at our miami smelter. our el paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. molybdenum conversion facilities . we process molybdenum concentrate at our conversion plants in the u.s. and europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates and molybdenum disulfide. we operate molybdenum roasters in sierrita, arizona; fort madison, iowa; and rotterdam, the netherlands, and we operate a molybdenum pressure-leach plant in bagdad, arizona. we also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in stowmarket, united kingdom. freeport cobalt . in march 2013, we acquired a cobalt chemical refinery in kokkola, finland, and the related sales and marketing business which provided direct end-market access for the cobalt hydroxide production at the tenke mine. the joint venture operates under the name freeport cobalt, and we are the operator with an effective 56 percent ownership interest. the remaining effective ownership interest is held by lundin mining corporation (24 percent) and la g n rale des carri res et des mines (20 percent). the kokkola refinery has an annual refining capacity of approximately 15,000 metric tons of cobalt. as further discussed in note 2 , fcx expects to sell its interest in freeport cobalt, which is classified as held for sale at december 31, 2017. other north america copper mines . we also have five non-operating copper mines ajo, bisbee, tohono, twin buttes and christmas, which are located in arizona that have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require new or updated environmental studies, new permits, and additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status. mining development projects and exploration capital expenditures for mining operations totaled $1.4 billion (including $0.9 billion for major projects) in 2017 , $1.6 billion (including $1.2 billion for major projects) in 2016 and $3.3 billion (including $2.4 billion for major projects) in 2015 . capital expenditures for major projects during the three years ended december 31, 2017 , were primarily associated with the cerro verde expansion project and ongoing underground development activities at grasberg. refer to md&amp;a for projected capital expenditures for the year 2018. if pt-fi is unable to reach a definitive agreement with the indonesian government on its long-term mining rights, we intend to reduce or defer investments significantly in underground development projects and will pursue dispute resolution procedures under pt-fi's cow. we have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. as further discussed in md&amp;a, our near-term major development projects primarily include the underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district and development of the lone star oxide project. considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. additionally, in response to market conditions and indonesian regulatory 22 table of contents uncertainty, the timing of our expenditures will continue to be reviewed. as further discussed in mining operations - indonesia, pt-fi also committed to commence construction of a new smelter during a five year timeframe after obtaining an investment stability agreement providing equivalent rights with the same level of legal and fiscal certainty provided under pt-fi's cow. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion of indonesia regulatory matters. we continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our mineral reserves. we also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the grasberg minerals district for the kucing liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. we expect to mine the kucing liar ore body using the block-cave method; aggregate capital cost estimates for development of the kucing liar ore body are projected to approximate $2.6 billion (which are expected to be made between 2019 and 2031). additionally, our current mine development plans include approximately $5.7 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once the grasberg open-pit operations cease. we expect substantially all of these expenditures to be made between 2019 and 2034. the timing and development of this project is currently being reviewed. our mining exploration activities are generally associated with our existing mines focusing on opportunities to expand reserves and resources to support development of additional future production capacity. exploration results continue to indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions in north america and south america. exploration spending associated with mining operations totaled $72 million in 2017 , $44 million in 2016 and $82 million in 2015 . exploration spending is expected to approximate $65 million for the year 2018 . sources and availability of energy, natural resources and raw materials our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented 18 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2017 , including purchases of approximately 196 million gallons of diesel fuel; 7,900 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america and south america copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 700 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 million mmbtu (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. based on current cost estimates, energy will approximate 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2018 . our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. for a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. sulphuric acid is used in the sx/ew process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulfur burners at the safford mine. sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties. community and human rights we have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. we continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs clean water and sanitation projects public health programs, including malaria control and human immunodeficiency virus agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs basic education programs cultural promotion and preservation programs community infrastructure development charitable donations 23 table of contents in december 2000, we endorsed the joint u.s. state department-british foreign office voluntary principles on human rights and security (voluntary principles). we participated in developing these voluntary principles with other major natural resource companies and international human rights organizations and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. the voluntary principles provide guidelines for our security programs, including interaction with host-government security personnel, private security contractors and our internal security employees. in february 2015, we updated our human rights policy to align our due diligence practices with the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights (un guiding principles), and in august 2017, we updated our human rights policy to reflect our full commitment to the un guiding principles. we have embarked on a program to plan and conduct site-level human rights impact assessments (hria) at operations with higher potential risks. hrias help us to embed human rights considerations into our business practices, including site-level sustaintable development risk registers. in 2017, we completed a hria at our cerro verde operation in peru. we also participate in a multi-industry human rights working group to gain insight from peer companies. we believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. as part of our ongoing commitment to sustainable community development, we make significant investments in social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations. over the last five years, these investments have averaged $166 million per year. nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. south america . cerro verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, cerro verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve arequipa. in addition, an agreement was reached with the peruvian government for development of a water storage network that was financed by cerro verde and a distribution network that was financed by the cerro verde civil association. cerro verde reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, sedapar and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa, which was completed in 2015. the wastewater treatment plant supplements existing water supplies to support cerro verde's concentrator expansion and also improves the local water quality, enhances agriculture products grown in the area and reduces the risk of waterborne illnesses. in addition to these projects, cerro verde annually makes significant community development investments in the arequipa region. security matters . consistent with our operating permits in peru and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, cerro verde maintains its own internal security department. both employees and contractors perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights and voluntary principles training annually. some contractors assigned to protection of expatriate personnel are armed. these contractors also receive training in defensive driving and firearms handling. cerro verde's costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $8 million in 2017 and $6 million in both 2016 and 2015. cerro verde, like all businesses and residents of peru, relies on the peruvian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the peruvian government is responsible for employing police personnel and directing their operations. cerro verde has limited public security forces in support of its operation, with the arrangement defined through an mou with the peruvian national police. cerro verde's share of support costs for government-provided security approximated $1 million in each of the years 2017, 2016 and 2015. indonesia . in 1996, pt-fi established the freeport partnership fund for community development (the partnership fund) through which pt-fi has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development. pt-fi has committed through 2018 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the partnership fund. pt-fi recognized $44 million in 2017 , $33 million in 2016 and $27 million in 2015 for this commitment. 24 table of contents the amungme and kamoro community development organization ( lembaga pengembangan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro or lpmak) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the partnership fund. lpmak is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local amungme and kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of pt-fi on each board. the amungme and kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. in addition to the partnership fund, pt-fi annually makes significant investments in public health, education, community infrastructure and economic development. security matters . consistent with our cow in indonesia and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, pt-fi maintains its own internal security department. both employees and contractors are unarmed and perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights training annually. pt-fi's share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $54 million in 2017 and $58 million for both 2016 and 2015 . pt-fi, and all businesses and residents of indonesia, rely on the indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesian government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. this designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. the indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. from the outset of pt-fi's operations, the indonesian government has looked to pt-fi to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in papua. pt-fi's financial support for the indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol pt-fi's roads and secure its operating area. in addition, the provision of such support is consistent with pt-fi's obligations under the cow, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights. pt-fi's share of support costs for the government-provided security was $23 million in 2017 , $20 million in 2016 and $21 million in 2015 . this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion of security risks in indonesia. 25 table of contents mining production and sales data years ended december 31, production sales copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 (fcx's net interest in %) north america morenci (72%) a 737 848 902 713 855 915 bagdad (100%) 173 177 210 164 180 222 safford (100%) 150 230 202 154 229 198 sierrita (100%) 160 162 189 154 162 196 miami (100%) 19 25 43 18 27 46 chino (100%) 215 308 314 217 308 319 tyrone (100%) 61 76 84 61 75 89 other (100%) 3 5 3 3 5 3 total north america 1,518 1,831 1,947 1,484 1,841 1,988 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 1,062 1,108 545 1,062 1,105 544 el abra (51%) 173 220 324 173 227 327 total south america 1,235 1,328 869 1,235 1,332 871 indonesia grasberg (90.64%) b 984 1,063 752 981 1,054 744 consolidated - continuing operations 3,737 4,222 3,568 3,700 c 4,227 c 3,603 c discontinued operations d 425 449 424 467 total 3,737 4,647 4,017 3,700 4,651 4,070 less noncontrolling interests 670 909 680 670 910 688 net 3,067 3,738 3,337 3,030 3,741 3,382 average realized price per pound (continuing operations) $ 2.93 $ 2.28 $ 2.42 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) north america (100%) a 23 27 25 22 25 23 indonesia (90.64%) b 1,554 1,061 1,232 1,540 1,054 1,224 consolidated 1,577 1,088 1,257 1,562 1,079 1,247 less noncontrolling interests 145 99 115 144 99 115 net 1,432 989 1,142 1,418 980 1,132 average realized price per ounce $ 1,268 $ 1,238 $ 1,129 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) henderson (100%) 12 10 25 n/a n/a n/a climax (100%) 20 16 23 n/a n/a n/a north america copper mines (100%) a 33 33 37 n/a n/a n/a cerro verde (53.56%) 27 21 7 n/a n/a n/a consolidated 92 80 92 95 74 89 less noncontrolling interest 13 9 3 12 6 4 net 79 71 89 83 68 85 average realized price per pound $ 9.33 $ 8.33 $ 8.70 a. amounts are net of morenci's undivided joint venture partners' interest; effective may 31, 2016, fcx's undivided interest in morenci was prospectively reduced from 85 percent to 72 percent (refer to note 2 for further discussion). b. amounts are net of grasberg's joint venture partner interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement (refer to note 3 ). under the joint venture agreement, pt-fi's share of copper production and sales was 99 percent in 2017 and 100 percent in both 2016 and 2015 . pt-fi's share of gold production and sales was 100 percent in 2017, 2016, and 2015. c. consolidated sales volumes exclude purchased copper of 273 million pounds in 2017, 188 million pounds in 2016 and 121 million pounds in 2015. d. in november 2016, we completed the sale of our interest in tfhl, through which we held an interest in the tenke mine, which is reported as a discontinued operation for all periods presented (refer to note 2 for further discussion). 26 table of contents mineral reserves recoverable proven and probable reserves have been calculated in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange act of 1934. proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance in other countries. proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. the term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the term proven reserves means reserves for which (i) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (ii) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (iii) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. the term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at december 31, 2017 , were determined using $2.00 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. for the three-year period ended december 31, 2017 , lme spot copper prices averaged $2.50 per pound, london pm gold prices averaged $1,223 per ounce and the weekly average price for molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $7.12 per pound. in late 2015, we incorporated changes in the commercial pricing structure for our molybdenum-based chemical products to enable continuation of chemical-grade production. the recoverable proven and probable reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. recoverable reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2017 copper a (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) north america 33.5 0.3 2.22 south america 28.1 0.62 indonesia b 25.1 23.2 consolidated basis c 86.7 23.5 2.84 net equity interest d 71.3 21.3 2.56 a. consolidated recoverable copper reserves include 2.1 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 0.7 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (refer to mill and leach stockpiles for further discussion). b. recoverable proven and probable reserves from indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041. refer to note 13 and to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of pt-fi's cow and indonesian regulatory matters. c. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our joint ventures). excluded from the table above were our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves of 273.4 million ounces of silver in north america, south america and indonesia, which were determined using $15 per ounce. d. net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries). excluded from the table above were our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves of 218.2 million ounces of silver in north america, south america and indonesia. 27 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2017 proven reserves probable reserves average ore grade average ore grade processing million copper gold moly silver million copper gold moly silver method metric tons % g/t % g/t metric tons % g/t % g/t north america morenci mill 572 0.40 0.02 115 0.37 0.02 crushed leach 290 0.46 80 0.36 rom leach 1,603 0.19 474 0.17 bagdad mill 1,001 0.34 a 0.02 1.42 132 0.31 a 0.02 1.31 rom leach 190 0.19 82 0.18 safford, including lone star crushed leach 555 0.46 107 0.42 sierrita mill 2,064 0.24 a 0.03 1.42 181 0.19 a 0.02 1.13 chino, including cobre mill 107 0.55 0.04 0.01 0.47 62 0.55 0.03 a 0.46 rom leach 99 0.33 8 0.31 tyrone rom leach 6 0.44 3 0.37 henderson mill 60 0.18 14 0.14 climax mill 147 0.16 13 0.09 6,694 1,271 south america cerro verde mill 885 0.37 0.01 1.94 2,586 0.37 0.01 1.94 crushed leach 31 0.41 44 0.28 rom leach 14 0.22 17 0.20 el abra crushed leach 270 0.48 74 0.47 rom leach 37 0.19 13 0.20 1,237 2,734 indonesia dmlz mill 76 1.00 0.83 4.70 361 0.90 0.74 4.33 grasberg open pit mill 12 1.93 4.69 5.58 22 0.95 1.53 2.58 doz mill 25 0.56 0.75 2.15 54 0.54 0.76 2.01 big gossan mill 18 2.32 0.98 14.40 40 2.18 0.91 12.64 grasberg block cave b mill 335 1.17 0.90 3.83 628 0.93 0.63 3.36 kucing liar b mill 136 1.33 1.13 7.14 224 1.20 1.03 6.08 602 1,329 total fcx - 100% basis 8,533 5,334 a. grade not shown because of rounding. b. would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. the reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below: g/t grams per metric ton moly molybdenum 28 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2017 (continued) proven and probable average ore grade recoveries a processing million copper gold moly silver copper gold moly silver method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % north america morenci mill 687 0.39 0.02 80.6 49.2 crushed leach 370 0.44 79.4 rom leach 2,077 0.18 41.1 bagdad mill 1,133 0.34 b 0.02 1.41 85.8 59.1 68.5 49.3 rom leach 272 0.19 22.1 safford, including lone star crushed leach 662 0.45 72.7 sierrita mill 2,245 0.23 b 0.03 1.40 83.2 59.2 80.0 49.3 chino, including cobre mill 169 0.55 0.04 0.01 0.47 78.9 77.9 40.0 78.5 rom leach 107 0.33 47.4 tyrone rom leach 9 0.42 58.9 henderson mill 74 0.17 88.4 climax mill 160 0.15 89.6 7,965 south america cerro verde mill 3,471 0.37 0.01 1.94 86.4 54.4 44.8 crushed leach 75 0.33 81.1 rom leach 31 0.21 53.3 el abra crushed leach 344 0.48 58.2 rom leach 50 0.19 47.3 3,971 indonesia dmlz mill 437 0.91 0.76 4.39 86.9 79.5 64.4 grasberg open pit mill 34 1.29 2.64 3.63 94.0 90.8 47.6 doz mill 79 0.54 0.76 2.05 90.1 81.9 68.7 big gossan mill 58 2.22 0.93 13.18 91.4 66.4 63.7 grasberg block cave c mill 963 1.01 0.72 3.52 84.4 64.6 57.3 kucing liar c mill 360 1.25 1.07 6.48 84.5 44.3 39.1 1,931 total fcx - 100% basis 13,867 a. recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. grade not shown because of rounding. c. would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. 29 table of contents recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves estimated at december 31, 2017 (continued) recoverable reserves copper gold moly silver fcx's processing billion million billion million interest method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. north america morenci 72% mill 4.8 0.14 crushed leach 2.8 rom leach 3.5 bagdad 100% mill 7.2 0.1 0.36 25.3 rom leach 0.3 safford, including lone star 100% crushed leach 4.8 sierrita 100% mill 9.7 0.1 1.01 49.8 chino, including cobre 100% mill 1.6 0.1 0.01 2.0 rom leach 0.4 tyrone 100% rom leach a henderson 100% mill 0.24 climax 100% mill 0.48 35.1 0.3 2.24 77.1 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 1.7 0.02 100% operations 36.8 0.3 2.26 77.1 consolidated c 33.5 0.3 2.22 77.1 net equity interest d 33.5 0.3 2.22 77.1 south america cerro verde 53.56% mill 24.3 0.61 97.2 crushed leach 0.4 rom leach 0.1 el abra 51% crushed leach 2.1 rom leach 0.1 27.0 0.61 97.2 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 1.1 0.01 2.1 100% operations 28.1 0.62 99.3 consolidated c 28.1 0.62 99.3 net equity interest d 15.0 0.34 53.2 indonesia dmlz e mill 7.7 8.5 39.8 grasberg open pit e mill 0.9 2.6 1.8 doz e mill 0.9 1.6 3.6 big gossan e mill 2.6 1.2 15.6 grasberg block cave e mill 18.1 14.5 62.5 kucing liar e mill 8.4 5.4 29.3 38.6 33.8 152.6 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 0.2 0.1 0.5 100% operations 38.8 33.9 153.1 consolidated c 25.1 23.2 97.0 net equity interest d 22.8 21.0 87.9 total fcx 100% basis 103.7 34.2 2.88 329.5 total fcx consolidated basis c 86.7 23.5 2.84 273.4 total fcx net equity interest d 71.3 21.3 2.56 218.2 a. pounds not shown because of rounding. b. refer to mill and leach stockpiles for additional information. c. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our joint ventures. d. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. e. our joint venture agreement with rio tinto provides that pt-fi will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2022, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of december 31,1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow. 30 table of contents in defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. the objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. we use a break-even cutoff grade to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. the break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum and silver. we value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. the calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. the table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of december 31, 2017 : copper equivalent cutoff grade (percent) molybdenum cutoff grade (percent) mill crushed leach rom leach mill north america morenci 0.22 0.12 0.03 bagdad 0.12 0.06 safford, including lone star 0.12 sierrita 0.17 chino, including cobre 0.23 0.06 tyrone 0.06 henderson 0.12 climax 0.05 south america cerro verde 0.17 0.14 0.11 el abra 0.10 0.06 indonesia dmlz 0.90 grasberg open pit 0.25 doz 1.02 big gossan 1.69 grasberg block cave 0.77 kucing liar 0.97 31 table of contents drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. the following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: average drill hole spacing (in meters) proven probable mining unit mill leach mill leach north america morenci open pit 86 86 122 122 bagdad open pit 86 86 122 122 safford, including lone star open pit 86 122 sierrita open pit 73 104 chino open pit 43 86 86 122 cobre open pit 61 61 91 91 tyrone open pit 86 86 henderson block cave 47 96 climax open pit 61 91 south america cerro verde open pit 55 55 110 110 el abra open pit 75 120 indonesia dmlz block cave 22 64 grasberg open pit open pit 26 55 doz block cave 23 57 big gossan open stope 12 36 grasberg block cave block cave 28 68 kucing liar block cave 39 96 32 table of contents production sequencing the following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body and from related stockpiles. the chart also shows the term of pt-fi's cow. production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. the sequencing dates shown in the chart below include development activity that results in metal production. the ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. in addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below. mill and leach stockpiles mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from an ore body and are available for copper recovery. mill stockpiles contain sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. leach stockpiles contain oxide ores and certain secondary sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. because it is impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. 33 table of contents expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. total copper recovery in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including processing methodology, processing variables, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 80 percent of total copper recovery may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of december 31, 2017 : recoverable million average recovery copper metric tons ore grade (%) rate (%) (billion pounds) mill stockpiles cerro verde 112 0.29 73.7 0.6 grasberg minerals district 26 0.58 62.7 0.2 138 0.8 leach stockpiles morenci 6,398 0.24 2.0 0.7 bagdad 499 0.25 0.4 a safford, including lone star 262 0.45 9.1 0.2 sierrita 650 0.15 10.3 0.2 miami 498 0.39 1.9 0.1 chino, including cobre 1,728 0.25 4.1 0.4 tyrone 1,138 0.28 1.6 0.1 cerro verde 560 0.49 4.1 0.2 el abra 698 0.44 4.6 0.3 12,431 2.2 total fcx - 100% basis 3.0 total fcx - consolidated basis b 2.8 total fcx - net equity interest c 2.3 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. consolidated stockpiles represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our joint ventures. c. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. mineralized material we hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. however, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $2.20 per pound for copper, $1,000 per ounce for gold, $12 per pound for molybdenum and $20 per ounce for silver. 34 table of contents mineralized material estimated at december 31, 2017 milling material leaching material total mineralized material million million million fcx's metric copper gold moly silver metric copper metric interest tons % g/t % g/t tons % tons north america morenci 72% 260 0.31 0.02 639 0.24 899 bagdad 100% 986 0.27 a 0.02 1.2 7 0.20 993 safford, including lone star 100% 274 0.61 0.10 1.9 195 0.34 469 sierrita 100% 1,597 0.18 a 0.02 1.1 1,597 chino, including cobre 100% 122 0.52 0.03 0.01 0.5 15 0.30 137 tyrone 100% 56 0.32 56 henderson 100% 104 0.14 104 climax 100% 378 0.16 378 ajo 100% 438 0.40 0.06 0.01 0.9 438 cochise/bisbee 100% 255 0.46 255 sanchez 100% 144 0.30 144 tohono 100% 230 0.71 271 0.66 501 twin buttes 100% 75 0.61 0.04 6.3 46 0.22 121 christmas 100% 202 0.40 0.05 a 1.0 202 south america cerro verde 53.56% 969 0.36 0.02 1.9 6 0.24 975 el abra 51% 1,898 0.44 0.02 0.01 1.4 202 0.28 2,100 indonesia grasberg minerals district 54.38% b 1,887 0.74 0.65 3.7 1,887 total fcx - 100% basis 9,675 1,581 11,256 c total fcx - consolidated basis d 8,847 1,402 10,249 total fcx - net equity interest e 7,361 1,300 8,661 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. fcx's interest in the grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership. c. excludes mineralized material of 72 million metric tons associated with kisanfu, which in accordance with accounting guidelines is included in assets held for sale (refer to note 2 ). d. consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for joint venture partner interests in the morenci mine in north america and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our joint ventures. e. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. 35 table of contents oil and gas operations as further discussed in note 2 , during 2016 and 2017, we completed the sales of substantially all of our oil and gas properties, including our deepwater gulf of mexico (gom), onshore california and haynesville oil and gas properties, and property interests in the gom shelf and the madden area in central wyoming. as a result, our portfolio of oil and gas assets includes oil and natural gas production onshore in south louisiana and on the gom shelf and oil production offshore california, which had estimated proved developed reserves of 10.1 million barrels of oil equivalents (mmboe) at december 31, 2017 . exploration and development activities during 2017, capital expenditures associated with oil and gas properties totaled $34 million, primarily associated with changes in capital expenditure accruals. we have no plans to incur significant capital expenditures associated with oil and gas properties in future periods. capital expenditures for our oil and gas operations totaled $1.2 billion in 2016 (including $0.6 billion incurred for gom and $0.5 billion for changes in capital expenditure accruals) and $3.0 billion in 2015 (including $2.6 billion incurred for gom). production and sales data for the year 2017, oil and gas sales were not material and totaled 4.6 mmboe. the following table presents oil and gas production and sales data for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015: 2016 2015 gom oil (million barrels, or mmbbls) 22.9 22.2 natural gas (billion cubic feet, or bcf) 39.0 a 35.9 a ngls (mmbbls) 1.7 2.2 mmboe 31.1 30.3 california oil (mmbbls) 11.4 12.9 natural gas (bcf) 1.8 b 2.2 b ngls (mmbbls) 0.1 0.2 mmboe 11.8 13.5 haynesville/madden/other oil (mmbbls) 0.1 0.2 natural gas (bcf) 24.3 51.6 mmboe 4.2 8.8 total u.s. oil and gas operations oil (mmbbls) 34.4 35.3 natural gas (bcf) 65.1 89.7 ngls (mmbbls) 1.8 2.4 mmboe 47.1 52.6 a. net of fuel used in operations totaling 3.8 bcf in 2016 and 1.1 bcf in 2015. b. net of fuel used in operations totaling 0.1 bcf in 2016 and 0.6 bcf in 2015. productive wells at december 31, 2017 , the total number of active producing oil and gas wells was not significant. at december 31, 2016 , we had working interests in 120 gross (94 net) active producing oil wells and 640 gross (100 net) active producing natural gas wells. at december 31, 2015 , we had working interests in 3,060 gross (2,976 net) active producing oil wells and 1,759 gross (213 net) active producing natural gas wells. 36 table of contents drilling activities there were no exploratory or development wells drilled during 2017 or in progress at december 31, 2017 . the following table provides the total number of wells that we drilled during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015: 2016 2015 gross net gross net exploratory productive: oil 2 2 2 1 gas 1 31 5 dry 4 3 3 2 37 9 development productive: oil 8 5 7 3 gas 1 17 2 dry 2 2 9 5 26 7 12 7 63 16 item 1a. risk factors. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of united states (u.s.) federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as projections or expectations relating to ore grades and milling rates; production and sales volumes; unit net cash costs; operating cash flows; anticipated tax refunds resulting from u.s. tax reform; capital expenditures; exploration efforts and results; development and production activities and costs; liquidity; tax rates; the impact of copper, gold and molybdenum price changes; the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings; reserve estimates; future dividend payments; and share purchases and sales. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. we caution readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following: financial risks fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum have caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in our financial performance and in the trading prices of our debt and common stock. extended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and, to a lesser extent, molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and asset values and, if sustained, may adversely affect our ability to repay debt. our financial results will vary with fluctuations in the market prices of the commodities we produce, primarily copper and gold, and to a lesser extent molybdenum. an extended decline in market prices of these commodities could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, the value of our assets and/or our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations; and may depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. additionally, if market prices for our primary commodities decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. we may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, in which case we may incur losses, and those losses may be material. fluctuations in commodities prices are caused by varied and complex factors beyond our control, including global supply and demand balances and inventory levels; global economic and political conditions; international regulatory, 37 table of contents trade and tax policies; commodities investment activity and speculation; the price and availability of substitute products; and changes in technology. copper prices may be affected by demand from china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world, and by changes in demand for industrial, commercial and residential products containing copper. copper prices have fluctuated historically, with london metal exchange (lme) spot copper prices ranging from $1.96 per pound to $3.27 per pound during the three years ended december 31, 2017 . lme spot copper prices averaged $2.80 per pound in 2017, $2.21 per pound in 2016 and $2.49 per pound in 2015. the lme spot copper price was $3.25 per pound on december 31, 2017 , and $3.22 per pound on january 31, 2018 . factors affecting gold prices may include the relative strength of the u.s. dollar to other currencies, inflation and interest rate expectations, purchases and sales of gold by governments and central banks, demand from china and india, two of the world ' largest consumers of gold, and global demand for jewelry containing gold. the london pm gold price averaged $1,257 per ounce in 2017, $1,250 per ounce in 2016 and $1,160 per ounce in 2015. the london pm gold price was $1,297 per ounce on december 31, 2017 , and $1,345 per ounce on january 31, 2018 . the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price averaged $8.21 per pound in 2017, $6.47 per pound in 2016 and $6.66 per pound in 2015. the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price was $10.15 per pound on december 31, 2017 , and $11.87 per pound on january 31, 2018 . as further discussed in notes 4 and 5 , non-cash charges for inventory adjustments totaled $8 million in 2017 and $36 million in 2016 primarily for molybdenum, and $338 million in 2015 for copper and molybdenum, and long-lived mining asset impairments totaled $37 million in 2015. declines in copper, gold and/or molybdenum prices could result in additional metals inventory adjustments and impairment charges for our long-lived assets. other events that could result in impairment of our long-lived assets include, but are not limited to, decreases in estimated proven and probable mineral reserves and any event that might have a material adverse effect on mine production costs. our debt and other financial commitments may limit our financial and operating flexibility. at december 31, 2017 , our total consolidated debt was $ 13.1 billion (see note 8 ) and our total consolidated cash was $4.4 billion . we also have various other financial commitments, including reclamation and environmental obligations, take-or-pay contracts and leases. for further information, refer to the risk factor below relating to mine closure and reclamation regulations and plugging and abandonment obligations related to our remaining oil and gas properties. our level of indebtedness and other financial commitments could have important consequences to our business, including the following: limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and/or material contingencies, to engage in future development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt; requiring us to sell assets to reduce debt; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. any failure to comply with the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements may result in an event of default that would allow the creditors to accelerate maturities of the related debt, which in turn may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt agreements. our available cash and liquidity may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our debt instruments that are accelerated upon an event of default. from august 2015 through november 2016, we sold 326.5 million shares of our common stock under registered at-the-market equity programs, which generated $3.5 billion in gross proceeds (refer to note 10 ). in addition, during 2016, we issued 48.1 million shares of our common stock in connection with the settlement of two drilling rig 38 table of contents contracts (refer to note 13 ) and 27.7 million shares of our common stock in exchange for $369 million of fcx senior notes (refer to note 10 ). any additional issuance of equity capital to fund operations, reduce debt, improve our financial position or for other purposes, may have a negative impact on our stock price. as of january 31, 2018 , our senior unsecured debt was rated bb- with a stable outlook by standard &amp; poor's (s&amp;p), bb+ with a negative outlook by fitch ratings (fitch), and ba2 with a stable outlook by moody's investors service (moody's). there is no assurance that our credit ratings will not be downgraded in the future. mine closure and reclamation regulations impose substantial costs on our operations and include requirements that we provide financial assurance supporting those obligations. we also have plugging and abandonment obligations related to our remaining oil and gas properties, and are required to provide bonds or other forms of financial assurance in connection with those properties. changes in or the failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. we are required by u.s. federal and state laws and regulations to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans for our mining properties if we are unable to do so. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and state agencies may also require financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions that are required under settlements of enforcement actions under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980 (cercla) or similar state laws. refer to note 12 for additional information regarding our financial assurance obligations. with respect to our mining operations, most of our financial assurance obligations are imposed by state laws that vary significantly by jurisdiction, depending on how each state regulates land use and groundwater quality. although section 108(b) of cercla has required epa to identify classes of facilities that must establish evidence of financial responsibility since it was adopted in 1980, currently there are no financial assurance requirements for active mining operations under cercla. in august 2014, several environmental organizations initiated litigation against epa to require it to set a schedule for adopting financial assurance regulations under cercla governing the hard rock mining industry. epa and the environmental organizations reached a joint agreement and submitted it to the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit for approval. notwithstanding industry objections, the court approved the agreement on january 29, 2016, thereby requiring epa to propose financial assurance regulations for the hard rock mining industry by december 1, 2016, and to provide notice of its final action by december 1, 2017. the proposed regulations were published on january 11, 2017, and the public comment period closed on july 11, 2017. the proposed rules were vigorously opposed by the mining industry, other industry commenters, and states and other federal agencies that have mine closure and reclamation programs. we and others in the industry submitted comments to inform epa that, if adopted without material modification, the rules would impose financial responsibility obligations on u.s. hard rock mining operations that are unnecessary, duplicative of existing state and other federal requirements, and unreasonable. our initial calculations also suggested that the financial responsibility amounts would be difficult, if not impossible, for us and others to meet with corporate resources, and would be extremely expensive, if not impossible, to finance with third-party financial instruments such as letters of credit, bonds or insurance. on december 1, 2017, epa announced that it was withdrawing its proposed rules and would not issue any final financial assurance regulations for the hard rock mining industry. epa indicated that its decision was based on its interpretation of the statute and analysis of its record developed for this rule making, including comments on federal and state regulatory controls governing the hard rock mining sector, and federal and state financial responsibility requirements. environmental organizations have announced that they will file suit challenging epa's decision after the final decision has been published in the federal register. we and others in the industry will continue to participate in the legal process and oppose any re-proposal of rules similar to what epa proposed on december 1, 2016, as a re-proposal of similar rules would severely harm the international competitiveness of the u.s. hard rock mining industry and would materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are also subject to financial assurance requirements in connection with our remaining oil and gas properties under both state and federal laws, including financial responsibility required under the oil pollution act of 1990 to cover containment and cleanup costs resulting from an oil spill. in 2016, the u.s. bureau of ocean energy management (boem) issued revised requirements for lessees operating in federal waters to secure the cost of plugging, abandoning, decommissioning and/or removing wells, platforms and pipelines at the end of production. the revised requirements eliminate previously provided waivers from requirements to post security. in early 2017, the boem announced a delay in the implementation of certain aspects of the rules pending further review. the boem has been discussing the rules with industry representatives, and implementation remains on hold at this time. if implemented, the new requirements could require us to post security in the form of bonds or similar 39 table of contents assurances. the cost for bonds or other forms of assurances can be substantial, and there is no assurance that they can be obtained in all cases. as of december 31, 2017 , our financial assurance obligations totaled $1.2 billion for closure and reclamation/restoration costs of u.s. mining sites, and $0.6 billion for plugging and abandonment obligations of our remaining oil and gas properties (refer to note 12 ). a substantial portion of our financial assurance obligations are satisfied by fcx and subsidiary guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. our ability to continue to provide guarantees and financial capability demonstrations depends on state and other regulatory requirements, our financial performance and our financial condition. other forms of assurance, such as letters of credit and surety bonds, are costly to provide and, depending on our financial condition and market conditions, may be difficult or impossible to obtain. failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of the affected properties. refer to notes 1 and 12 , for further discussion of our environmental and asset retirement obligations. unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation or with respect to other contingencies could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in numerous legal proceedings and subject to other contingencies that have arisen or may arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues arising from legacy operations conducted over the years by freeport minerals corporation (fmc) and its affiliates, including those described in note 12 and in item 3. legal proceedings involving matters such as remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, claims of personal injury or property damage arising from such contamination or from exposure to substances such as lead, arsenic, asbestos, talc and other allegedly toxic substances, disputes over water rights, and disputes with foreign governments or regulatory authorities over royalties, taxes, rights and obligations under concession or other agreements, or other matters. we are also involved periodically in other reviews, inquiries, investigations and other proceedings initiated by or involving government agencies, some of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition, from time to time we are involved in disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties, other sanctions or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. management does not believe, based on currently available information, that the outcome of any individual legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, although individual or cumulative outcomes could be material to our operating results for a particular period, depending on the nature and magnitude of the outcome and the operating results for the period. with respect to the asbestos exposure cases described in note 12 , there has been an increase in the number of cases against fmc and certain affiliates alleging exposure to talc contaminated with asbestos and to talc that is not alleged to be contaminated with asbestos. there have been a number of large jury awards in single plaintiff cases primarily brought by consumers against makers of common consumer products containing talc and alleging serious health risks, including mesothelioma and ovarian cancer allegedly associated with long-term use of such products. prior affiliates were involved in talc mining, and some of those affiliates have been named as defendants in some of those cases. we have indemnification rights against a successor to those businesses, and the successor has acknowledged those indemnification obligations, subject to certain reservations, and has taken responsibility for all cases we have tendered to it. however, the indemnitor may have limited financial resources and limited amounts of insurance available to meet those obligations. international risks our international operations are subject to political, social and geographic risks of doing business in countries outside the u.s. we are a u.s.-based mining company with substantial assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru and chile. accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in countries outside the u.s., our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in each of these countries. 40 table of contents risks of conducting business in countries outside of the u.s. include: renegotiation, cancellation or forced modification of existing contracts; expropriation or nationalization of property; changes in the host country's laws, regulations and policies, including those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, divestment, imports, exports, trade regulations, currency and environmental matters, which because of rising resource nationalism in countries around the world, may impose increasingly onerous requirements on foreign operations and investment; political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; changes in the aspirations and expectations of local communities in which we operate with respect to our contributions to employee health and safety, infrastructure and community development and other factors that may affect our social license to operate, all of which lead to increased costs; changes in u.s. trade, tax, immigration or other policies that may harm relations with foreign countries or result in retaliatory policies; foreign exchange controls and movements in foreign currency exchange rates; and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of an international court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. may be substantially affected by many unpredictable factors beyond our control, some of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. our international operations must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we operate. there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws in recent years. any violation of those laws could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax disputes with the indonesian and peruvian tax authorities (refer to note 12 for further discussion of these matters). other risks specific to certain countries in which we operate are discussed in more detail below. because our grasberg mining operation in indonesia is a significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia. our mining operations in indonesia are conducted by our subsidiary pt freeport indonesia (pt-fi) pursuant to a contract of work (cow) with the indonesian government. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important to us because of the significance of our indonesia operations to our business, and because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises. partially because of their significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area in which they are located, and the number of people employed, our indonesia operations have been the subject of political debates and of criticism in the indonesian press, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. for further discussion of the history of pt-fi's cow, refer to note 13 . the initial term of pt-fi's cow expires in 2021, but the cow explicitly provides that it can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. pt-fi has been engaged in discussions with officials of the indonesian government since 2012 regarding various provisions of its cow, including extending its term. notwithstanding provisions in the cow prohibiting it from doing so, the indonesian government has sought to modify existing mining contracts, including pt-fi's cow, to address 41 table of contents provisions contained in the mining law enacted in 2009 and mining regulations adopted thereunder, including provisions that conflict with the cow, such as the size of contract concessions, government revenues, domestic processing of minerals, divestment, provision of local goods and services, conversion from a cow to a licensing framework for extension periods, and a requirement that extensions may be applied for only within two years prior to a cow's expiration. regulations published pursuant to the 2009 mining law in january 2014 imposed, among other things, a progressive export duty on copper concentrate and restricted exports of copper concentrate and anode slimes (a by-product of the copper refining process containing metals, including gold) after january 12, 2017. despite pt-fi's rights under its cow to export concentrate without the payment of duties, pt-fi was unable to obtain administrative approval for exports and operated at approximately half of its capacity from mid-january 2014 through july 2014. in july 2014, pt-fi entered into a memorandum of understanding (mou) with the indonesian government, in which, subject to concluding an agreement to extend pt-fi's operations beyond 2021 on acceptable terms, pt-fi agreed to construct new smelter capacity in indonesia and to divest an additional 20.64 percent interest at fair value. under the mou, pt-fi provided a $115 million assurance bond to support its commitment for smelter development, agreed to pay higher royalty rates and agreed to pay export duties until certain smelter development milestones were met. the mou also anticipated an amendment of the cow within six months to address other matters. in january 2015, the mou was extended to july 25, 2015, and it expired on that date. the indonesian government has continued to impose the increased royalty rates, export duties and smelter assurance bond. in october 2015, the indonesian government provided a letter of assurance to pt-fi indicating that it would revise regulations allowing it to approve the extension of pt-fi's operations beyond 2021, and provide the same rights and the same level of legal and fiscal certainty provided under the current cow. in january and february 2017, the indonesian government issued new regulations pursuant to the 2009 mining law to address exports of unrefined metals, including copper concentrate and anode slimes, and other matters related to the mining sector. the new regulations permit the continuation of copper concentrate exports for a five-year period through january 2022, subject to various conditions, including conversion from a contract of work to a special mining license (known as an iupk, which does not provide the same level of fiscal and legal protections as pt-fi's cow, which remains in effect), a commitment to the completion of smelter construction in five years and payment of export duties to be determined by the ministry of finance. in addition, the new regulations enable application for extension of mining rights five years before expiration of the iupk and require foreign iupk holders to divest 51 percent to indonesian interests no later than the tenth year of production. export licenses would be valid for one-year periods, subject to review every six months, depending on smelter construction progress. following the issuance of the january and february 2017 regulations and discussions with the indonesian government, pt-fi advised the government that it was prepared to convert its cow to an iupk, subject to extension of its long-term mining rights to 2041 and obtaining an investment stability agreement providing contractual rights with the same level of legal and fiscal certainty provided under its cow, and provided that the cow would remain in effect until it is replaced by a mutually satisfactory alternative. pt-fi also committed to commence construction of a new smelter during a five-year time frame after approval of the extension of its long-term mining rights. on january 12, 2017, pt-fi suspended exports in response to indonesian regulations in effect at the time. in addition, as a result of labor disturbances and a delay in the renewal of its export license for anode slimes, pt smelting's (pt-fi's 25-percent-owned copper smelter and refinery located in gresik, indonesia) operations were shut down from mid-january 2017 until early march 2017. on february 10, 2017, pt-fi was forced to suspend production as a result of limited storage capacity at pt-fi and pt smelting. on april 21, 2017, the indonesian government issued a permit to pt-fi that allowed exports to resume for a six-month period, and pt-fi commenced export shipments. in mid-february 2017, pursuant to the cow's dispute resolution provisions, pt-fi provided formal notice to the indonesian government of an impending dispute listing the government's breaches and violations of the cow as described in the risk factor below pt-fi's cow may be subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel. 42 table of contents as a result of the 2017 regulatory restrictions and uncertainties regarding long-term investment stability, pt-fi took actions to adjust its cost structure, slow investments in its underground development projects and new smelter, and place certain of its workforce on furlough programs. in late march 2017, the indonesian government amended the regulations to enable pt-fi to retain its cow until replaced with an iupk accompanied by an investment stability agreement, and to grant pt-fi a temporary iupk. in april 2017, pt-fi entered into a mou with the indonesian government confirming that the cow would continue to be valid and honored until replaced by a mutually agreed iupk and investment stability agreement. in the mou, pt-fi agreed to continue to pay a 5.0 percent export duty during this period. subsequently, the customs office of the minister of finance refused to recognize the 5.0 percent export duty under the mou and imposed a 7.5 percent export duty under the ministry of finance regulations. since resuming exports on april 21, 2017, pt-fi has paid the 7.5 percent export duty under protest while the matter is pending in indonesia tax court proceedings. following a framework understanding reached in august 2017, the parties have engaged in negotiation and documentation of a special mining license and accompanying documentation for assurances on legal and fiscal terms to replace the cow while providing pt-fi with long-term mining rights through 2041. in addition, the iupk would provide that pt-fi would construct a new smelter in indonesia within five years of reaching a definitive agreement and include agreement for the divestment of 51 percent of the project area interests to indonesian participants at fair market value. execution of a definitive agreement will require approval by our board of directors (the board) and our joint venture partner, rio tinto plc (rio tinto), as well as the modification or revocation of current regulations and the implementation of new regulations by the indonesian government. in late 2017, the indonesian government (including the regional government of papua province and mimika regency) and pt indonesia asahan aluminium (inalum), a state-owned enterprise, which will lead the government's consortium of investors, agreed to form a special purpose company to acquire grasberg project area interests. inalum is wholly owned by the indonesian government and currently holds 9.36 percent of pt-fi's outstanding common stock. we are engaged in discussions with inalum and rio tinto regarding potential arrangements that would result in the inalum consortium acquiring interests that would meet the indonesian government's 51 percent ownership objective in a manner satisfactory to all parties, and in a structure that would provide for continuity of our management of pt-fi's operations and governance of the business. the parties continue to negotiate documentation on a comprehensive agreement for pt-fi's extended operations and to reach agreement on timing, process and governance matters relating to the divestment. the parties have a mutual objective of completing negotiations and the required documentation during the first half of 2018. in december 2017, pt-fi was granted an extension of its temporary iupk through june 30, 2018, to enable exports to continue while negotiations on a definitive agreement proceed. in february 2018, pt-fi received an extension of its export license through february 15, 2019. on february 15, 2018, pt smelting submitted an application to renew its anode slimes export license, which expires march 1, 2018 . until a definitive agreement is reached, pt-fi has reserved all rights under its cow, including dispute resolution procedures. we cannot predict whether pt-fi will be successful in reaching a satisfactory agreement on the terms of its long-term mining rights. if pt-fi is unable to reach a definitive agreement with the indonesian government on its long-term rights, we intend to reduce or defer investments significantly in underground development projects, which would have a material adverse effect on our future production, cash flow, results of operations and financial position, and could result in asset impairments, inventory write downs, difficulty in meeting covenants under our credit facilities, and a significant reduction in our reported mineral reserves. in 2018, indonesia will hold elections for legislators at the provincial and district levels, including the province of papua and mimika regency, and national legislative elections will be held in 2019. the presidential election will be held in april 2019, with a run-off in august 2019, if required. political considerations leading up to these elections could impact our progress in reaching a definitive agreement with the indonesian government on our long-term rights and the outcome of these elections could affect the country's policies pertaining to foreign investment. 43 table of contents pt-fi's cow may be subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel. pt-fi's cow was entered into under indonesia's 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provides guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization. the cow may be subject to termination by the indonesian government if we do not satisfy our contractual obligations, which include the payment of royalties and taxes to the government and the satisfaction of certain mining, environmental, safety and health requirements. recently adopted indonesian laws and regulations conflict with the mining rights established under the cow. although the cow grants to pt-fi the unencumbered right to operate in accordance with the cow, government agencies have sought and continue to seek to impose additional restrictions on pt-fi that could affect exploration and operating requirements. for further discussion, refer to the above risk factor because our grasberg mining operation in indonesia is a significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia. pt-fi's cow requires that disputes with the indonesian government be submitted to international arbitration. in mid-february 2017, pursuant to the cow's formal dispute resolution provisions, pt-fi provided formal notice to the indonesian government of an impending dispute listing the government's breaches and violations of the cow, including, but not limited to, the following: restrictions on pt-fi's basic right to export mining products in violation of the cow; imposition of export duties other than those taxes and other charges expressly provided for in the cow; imposition of surface water taxes in excess of the restrictions imposed by the cow (refer to note 12 for further discussion of these assessments); requirement for pt-fi to build a smelter, while such requirements are not contained in the cow; unreasonable withholding and delay in granting approval of two successive ten-year extensions of the term of the cow; and imposition of divestment requirements that are not provided for in the cow. if the dispute is not resolved, pt-fi may commence arbitration under the united nations commission on international trade law arbitration rules to enforce all provisions of the cow and seek damages, specifically in respect of the issuance of the january 11, 2017, regulations which are not in accordance with honoring the contractual commitments of the indonesian government and pt-fi under the cow. the arbitration proceedings would take place in jakarta, indonesia, and for limited purposes, would be overseen by the indonesian courts under the indonesian arbitration act. the international arbitration process is complex and could take considerable time to complete, and there is no assurance that we will prevail. if we prevail, we will face the additional risk of having to enforce the judgment of an international arbitration panel against indonesia within its own territory. additionally, our operations may be materially and adversely affected while resolution of a dispute is pending. at times, certain government officials and others in indonesia have questioned the validity of contracts entered into by the indonesian government prior to may 1998 ( i.e., during the suharto regime, which lasted over 30 years), including pt-fi's cow, which was signed in december 1991. we cannot provide assurance that the validity of, or our compliance with, the cow will not be challenged for political or other reasons. we will not mine all of our ore reserves in indonesia before the initial term of our cow expires. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and our current mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that we will receive the two 10-year extensions. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the current cow. prior to the end of 2021, we expect to mine 12 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2017 , representing 18 percent of pt-fi's share of recoverable copper reserves and 29 percent of its share of recoverable gold reserves. there can be no assurance that the indonesian government will approve our cow extensions. for further discussion, refer to the above risk factors because our 44 table of contents grasberg mining operation in indonesia is a significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia and pt-fi's cow may be subject to termination if we do not comply with our contractual obligations, and if a dispute arises, we may have to submit to the jurisdiction of an international arbitration panel. operational risks our mining operations are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business. our mines are very large in scale and, by their nature are subject to significant operational risks, some of which are outside of our control, and many of which are not covered fully, or in some cases even partially, by insurance. these operational risks, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flow, include earthquakes, rainstorms, floods, and other natural disasters; equipment failures; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses of our underground mines or tailings impoundments; and lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates. the waste rock (including overburden) and tailings produced in our mining operations represent our largest volume of waste material. managing the volume of waste rock and tailings presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks. we maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are effectively large dams that must be engineered, constructed and monitored to assure structural stability and avoid leakages or structural collapse. our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions, and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage at all of our operations. in indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks, as discussed below. the failure of tailings and other impoundments at any of our mining operations could cause severe property and environmental damage and loss of life, and we apply significant financial resources and both internal and external technical resources to the effective, safe management of all those facilities. the importance of careful design, management and monitoring of large impoundments was emphasized in recent years by large scale tailings dam failures at unaffiliated mines, which caused extensive property and environmental damage and resulted in the loss of life. our tailing stewardship program, which involves designated engineers of record and periodic oversight by external tailing review boards at numerous operations, complies with the tailings governance framework adopted in december 2016 by international council on mining and metals. we continue to augment our existing practices in an effort to reduce the risk of catastrophic failure of tailings storage facilities. labor unrest, violence, activism and civil and religious strife could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 40 percent of our global labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 15 percent of our global labor force was covered by agreements that have expired and are currently being negotiated or will expire during 2018. labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. refer to items 1. and 2., business and properties, for additional information regarding labor matters, and expiration dates of such agreements. we could also experience labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, or lockouts that could adversely affect our operations. for example, during third-quarter 2016, pt-fi experienced labor productivity issues and a 10-day work stoppage that began in late september 2016. these labor productivity issues continued during fourth-quarter 2016 and the first half of 2017. significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations could significantly reduce our production and sales volumes, which could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. indonesia has long faced separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. several separatist groups have sought increased political independence for the province of papua, where our grasberg 45 table of contents minerals district is located. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military and police. in addition, illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted for years to move them away from our facilities. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our indonesia operations. in 2009, a series of shooting incidents occurred within the pt-fi project area, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations. the shooting incidents continued on a sporadic basis through january 11, 2015. during this time, there were 20 fatalities and 59 injuries to our employees, contractor employees, government security personnel and civilians. the next shooting incident occurred in august 2017, and a series of shooting incidents has continued on a sporadic basis through february 16, 2018. from august 2017 through february 16, 2018, there have been 24 shooting incidents within the pt-fi project area and five shooting incidents in nearby areas, which resulted in 16 injuries to pt-fi's workforce and one civilian injury. additionally, during law enforcement actions, government security personnel incurred seven injuries and two fatalities. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt-fi continues to work with the indonesian government to address security issues. the investigation of these incidents is ongoing. we also continue to limit the use of the road leading to our mining and milling operations to secured convoys, including transport of personnel by armored vehicles in designated areas. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our indonesian operations. if other disruptive incidents occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict at this time. our mining operations depend on the availability of secure water supplies. our mining operations require physical availability and secure legal rights to significant quantities of water for mining and ore processing activities, and related support facilities. most of our north america and south america mining operations are in areas where competition for water supplies is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on many factors, including our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. in arizona, where our operations use both surface and ground water, we are a participant in an active general stream adjudication in which the arizona courts have been attempting, for over 40 years, to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for the gila river, one of the state's largest river systems, which primarily affects our morenci, safford and sierrita mines. the adjudication is addressing the state law claims of thousands of competing users, including us, as well as significant federal water claims that are potentially adverse to the state law claims of both surface water and groundwater users. groundwater is treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which historically allowed landowners to pump subsurface water, subject only to the requirement of putting it to reasonable use. however, court decisions in the adjudication have concluded that underground water is often hydrologically connected to surface water so that it actually is surface water and is therefore subject to the arizona doctrine of prior appropriation, as a result of which it would be subject to the adjudication and potentially unavailable to groundwater pumpers in the absence of valid surface water claims, which historic groundwater pumpers typically do not have. any re-characterization of groundwater as surface water could affect the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a user of both groundwater and surface water in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceeding. water for our cerro verde operation in peru comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collects water primarily from seasonal precipitation. as a result of occasional drought conditions, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our cerro verde operations. in january 2016, the peruvian government declared a temporary state of emergency with respect to the water supply in the rio chili basin because of drought conditions. as a result, the cerro verde water rights from the rio chili were temporarily decreased during february 2016. water for our el abra mining operation in chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. the agreement to pump from this aquifer is subject to continued monitoring of the aquifer level to ensure that environmentally sensitive areas are not impacted by our pumping. if impact occurs, we would have to reduce pumping to restore water levels, which could have an adverse effect on production from el abra. 46 table of contents although we typically have sufficient water for our indonesian operations, lower rainfall could affect our water supply availability from time to time. although each of our mining operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, as discussed above some supplies are subject to adjudication proceedings, the outcome of which we cannot predict, and the availability of additional supplies that may be required for potential future expansions is uncertain. while we are taking actions to acquire additional back-up water supplies, such supplies may not be available at acceptable cost, or at all, so that the loss of a water right or currently available water supply could force us to curtail operations or force premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia mining operations involve additional risks because they are located in very remote areas and on unusually difficult terrain. the grasberg minerals district is located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. these conditions have required us to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. in addition, the area receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. underground mining operations can be particularly dangerous, and in may 2013, a tragic accident, which resulted in 28 fatalities and 10 injuries, occurred at pt-fi when the rock structure above the underground ceiling of a training facility collapsed. pt-fi temporarily suspended mining and processing activities at the grasberg complex to conduct inspections and resumed open-pit mining and concentrating activities on june 24, 2013, and underground operations on july 9, 2013. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. we must continually replace reserves depleted by production, but our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our existing mineral reserves will be depleted over time by production from our operations. because our profits are primarily derived from our mining operations, our ability to replenish our mineral reserves is essential to our long-term success. our exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of additional deposits that can be produced profitably. we may not be able to discover, enhance, develop or acquire reserves in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow our current reserve levels, which could negatively affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. consolidated capital expenditures are expected to approximate $2.1 billion for 2018, including $1.2 billion for major projects primarily associated with underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district and development of the lone star oxide project. refer to the risk factor because our grasberg mining operation in indonesia is a significant operating asset, our business may continue to be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia for further discussion of regulatory matters in indonesia that may impact future investments in pt-fi's underground development projects. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects. the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, estimated capital and operating costs, and estimated future prices of the relevant commodity. the capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or timing can adversely affect project economics. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. the actual costs, production rates and economic returns of our development projects may differ materially from our estimates, which may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 47 table of contents our operations are subject to extensive regulations, some of which require permits and other approvals. these regulations increase our costs and in some circumstances may delay or suspend our operations. our operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that are subject to change and to changing interpretation by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with broad supervisory authority. as a natural resource company, compliance with environmental legal requirements is an integral and costly part of our business. for additional information, see environmental risks below. we are also subject to extensive regulation of worker health and safety, including the requirements of the u.s. occupational safety and health act and similar laws of other jurisdictions. in the u.s., the operation of our mines is subject to regulation by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977. msha inspects our mines on a regular basis and issues citations and orders when it believes a violation has occurred. if such inspections result in an alleged violation, we may be subject to fines and penalties and, in instances of alleged significant violations, our mining operations could be subject to temporary or extended closures. many other governmental bodies regulate other aspects of our operations, and our failure to comply with these legal requirements can result in substantial penalties. in addition, new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations by courts or regulatory authorities occur regularly, but are difficult to predict. any such variations could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. our business may be adversely affected by information technology disruptions. cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency, evolving in nature and include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. we have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks. however, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. environmental risks our operations are subject to complex, evolving and increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations. compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain existing operations or expansion opportunities. our operations, both in the u.s. and internationally, are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations governing the generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances; solid waste disposal; air emissions; wastewater discharges; remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, including mine closures and reclamation; well plug and abandonment requirements; protection of endangered and protected species and designation of critical habitats; and other related matters. in addition, we must obtain regulatory permits and approvals to start, continue and expand operations. our miami, arizona, smelter processes approximately half of the aggregate copper concentrate produced by our north america copper mines. epa regulations required us to invest approximately $230 million in new pollution control equipment to reduce sulfur dioxide (so 2 ) to meet both regional haze requirements and to allow the state of arizona to demonstrate compliance with epa's so 2 ambient air quality standards. the new so 2 pollution control equipment was operational as of the january 1, 2018, deadline imposed by epa. we also obtained regulatory approvals to increase the smelter's annual throughput to one million tons of copper concentrate, which has the additional benefit of increasing the production of sulphuric acid for use in our copper leach operations. laws such as cercla and similar state laws may expose us to joint and several liability for environmental damages caused by our operations, or by previous owners or operators of properties we acquired or are currently operating or at sites where we sent materials for processing, recycling or disposal. as discussed in more detail in the next risk factor, we have substantial obligations for environmental remediation on mining properties previously owned or operated by fmc and certain of its affiliates. noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in material penalties or other liabilities. in addition, compliance with these laws may from time to time result in delays in or changes to our development or expansion plans. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes 48 table of contents substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. new or revised environmental regulatory requirements are frequently proposed, many of which result in substantially increased costs for our business, including those regarding financial assurance in the financial risk factor above. in addition, in 2015, epa promulgated rules that could reclassify certain mineral processing materials as hazardous waste under the federal resource conservation and recovery act (rcra) and subject the industry to significant new and costly waste management requirements. these rules were challenged by multiple parties in court. in a decision issued in 2017, the court agreed in significant part with the challenges raised by the industry parties, and vacated key parts of the rule governing when hazardous process materials are considered discarded and, therefore, subject to regulation as solid waste under rcra and epa regulatory pronouncements. epa has also adopted rules that bring remote tributaries into the regulatory definition of waters of the united states that are protected by the clean water act, thereby imposing significant additional restrictions on land uses in remote areas with only tenuous connections to active waterways. these rules, adopted in 2015, were challenged by multiple states and industry parties. epa has moved forward to rescind these rules even as litigation challenging them is ongoing. on february 6, 2018, epa published a final notice delaying the effective date of these rules to february 2020, which will allow it time to reconsider the definition of waters of the united states. this final notice has been challenged by states and environmental groups. in the meantime, epa intends to administer the regulations in place prior to the 2015 rules and has asked for input on how it should define the scope of the clean water act in future rulemaking. regulations have been considered at various governmental levels to increase federal financial responsibility requirements both for mine closure and reclamation and for oil and gas decommissioning. adoption of these or similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs, threaten certain operating activities and constrain our expansion opportunities. in february 2016, the department of the interior's fish &amp; wildlife service (fws) adopted final rules that broaden the regulatory definitions of critical habitat and destruction or adverse modification, both of which are integral to the fws's implementation of the endangered species act, which protects federally-listed endangered and threatened species. the new rules increase fws's discretion to limit uses of land and water courses that may become suitable habitat for listed species in the future, or that are occasionally used by protected species. the new rules may limit the ability of landowners, including us, to obtain federal permits or authorizations needed for expansion of our operations, and may also affect our ability to obtain, retain or deliver water to some operations. in november 2016, the new rules were challenged in court by a coalition of states. in 2017, the department of interior indicated that it intends to reconsider these rules as part of its plans to modernize the implementation of the endangered species act. also in 2017, the fws withdrew certain proposed designations of critical habitat affecting our properties. we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations totaling $0.5 billion in 2017 and $0.4 billion in each of 2016 and 2015. for 2018 , we expect to incur approximately $0.5 billion of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation and plug and abandonment activities, the settlement of environmental matters and the rate at which actual spending occurs on continuing matters. we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. fmc and its subsidiaries, and many of their affiliates and predecessor companies, have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies fully understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for remediating hazardous substances released into the environment from properties owned or operated by them as well as properties where they arranged for disposal of such substances, irrespective of when the release to the environment occurred or who 49 table of contents caused it. that liability is often asserted on a joint and several basis with other prior and subsequent owners, operators and arrangers, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is, and each arranger may be, held fully responsible for the remediation, although in many cases some or all of the other responsible parties no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are potentially responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2017 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects in 26 u.s. states. in addition, fmc and certain affiliates and predecessor companies were parties to agreements relating to the transfer of businesses or properties that contained indemnification provisions relating to environmental matters, and from time to time these provisions become the source of claims against us. at december 31, 2017 , we had $1.4 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributable to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of operating facilities. our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases occurred many decades ago; our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. in addition, remediation standards imposed by epa and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time and may become even more stringent in the future. imposition of more stringent remediation standards, particularly for arsenic and lead in soils, poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at our active remediation sites and at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. refer to note 12 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesian government, uses the unnavigable river system in the highlands near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. in addition, overburden stockpiles are subject to erosion caused by the large amounts of rainfall, with the eroded stockpile material eventually being deposited in the lowlands tailings management area; this additional material, while predicted in our environmental studies, influences the deposition of finer tailings material in the estuary. 50 table of contents in october 2017, indonesia's ministry of environment and forestry (the ministry) notified pt-fi of administrative sanctions related to certain activities the ministry indicated are not reflected in its environmental permit. the ministry also notified pt-fi that certain operational activities were inconsistent with factors set forth in its environmental permitting studies and that additional monitoring and improvements need to be undertaken related to air quality, water drainage, treatment and handling of certain wastes, and tailings management. pt-fi has been engaged in a process to update its permits through submissions and dialogue with the ministry, which began in late 2014. pt-fi believes that it has submitted the required documentation to update its permits, and is in the process of addressing other points raised by the ministry. from time to time, certain indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than the river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented 18 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2017 . carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, although the use of diesel in our haul trucks, coal for power generation, and availability of renewable energy for purchased power varies significantly depending on site production and country-specific circumstances. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. as a result of the paris agreement reached during the 21 st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in 2015, a number of governments have pledged nationally determined contributions to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. although epa finalized regulations governing greenhouse gas emissions from new, modified, and existing power plants (known as the clean power plan), implementation of these rules has been delayed with the goal of revising the clean power plan. increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may increase our costs. other risks our holding company structure may impact our ability to service debt and our stockholders ' ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock and intercompany receivables of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. cash at our international operations is also typically subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us or repay loans to us, to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are parties to credit agreements that restrict their ability to make distributions or loan repayments to us if such subsidiary is in default under such agreements, or to transfer substantially all of the assets of such subsidiary without the consent of the lenders. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. 51 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize the board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the board. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to stockholders.risk factors 35 risk factors for further discussion of pt-fi's iupk. during the three years ended december 31, 2018, we have taken actions to restore our balance sheet strength through a combination of asset sale and capital market transactions, which primarily occurred during 2016. refer to notes 2 and 10 for further discussion of these transactions. these actions, combined with cash flow from operations, resulted in net reductions of debt totaling $9.3 billion during the three years ended december 31, 2018. 1 following are our ownership interests at december 31, 2018 , in operating mines through our subsidiaries, freeport minerals corporation (fmc) and pt-fi: a. prior to december 21, 2018, we owned 90.64 percent of pt-fi and pt-fi had an unincorporated joint venture with rio tinto. refer to note 2 for further discussion of the pt-fi divestment transaction and note 3 for discussion of the former rio tinto joint venture. b. fmc has a 72 percent undivided interest in morenci via an unincorporated joint venture. refer to note 3 for further discussion. at december 31, 2018 , our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves totaled 119.6 billion pounds of copper, 30.8 million ounces of gold and 3.78 billion pounds of molybdenum. following is a summary of our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2018 , by geographic location (refer to mining operations for further discussion): copper gold molybdenum north america 42 % 2 % 81 % a south america 28 19 indonesia 30 98 100 % 100 % 100 % a. our henderson and climax molybdenum mines contain 20 percent of our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable molybdenum reserves, and our north america copper mines contain 61 percent. in north america, we operate seven copper mines - morenci, bagdad, safford, sierrita and miami in arizona, and chino and tyrone in new mexico, and two molybdenum mines - henderson and climax in colorado. in addition to copper, certain of our north america copper mines also produce molybdenum concentrate, gold and silver. in south america, we operate two copper mines - cerro verde in peru and el abra in chile. in addition to copper, the cerro verde mine also produces molybdenum concentrate and silver. in indonesia, pt-fi operates in the grasberg minerals district. in addition to copper, the grasberg minerals district also produces gold and silver. 2 following is a summary of the geographic location of our consolidated copper, gold and molybdenum production for the year 2018 (refer to mining operations for further information): copper gold molybdenum north america 37 % 1 % 71 % a south america 33 29 indonesia 30 99 100 % 100 % 100 % a. our henderson and climax molybdenum mines produced 37 percent of our consolidated molybdenum production, and our north america copper mines produced 34 percent . the geographic locations of our operating mines are shown on the world map below. copper, gold and molybdenum following is a brief discussion of our primary natural resources copper, gold and molybdenum. for further discussion of historical and current market prices of these commodities, refer to md&amp;a and item 1a. risk factors. copper copper is an internationally traded commodity, and its prices are determined by the major metals exchanges the london metal exchange (lme), new york mercantile exchange (nymex) and shanghai futures exchange. prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide balance of copper supply and demand, and can be volatile and cyclical. during 2018 , the lme copper settlement price averaged $2.96 per pound, ranging from a low of $2.64 per pound to a high of $3.29 per pound, and was $2.71 per pound at december 31, 2018 . in general, demand for copper reflects the rate of underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and construction. according to wood mackenzie, a widely followed independent metals market consultant, copper's end-use markets (and their estimated shares of total consumption) are construction (30 percent), consumer products (25 percent), electrical applications (24 percent), transportation (11 percent) and industrial machinery (10 percent). we believe copper will continue to be essential in these basic uses as well as contribute significantly to new technologies for energy efficiencies, to advance communications and to enhance public health. examples of areas we believe will require additional copper in the future include: (i) high efficiency motors, which consume up to 75 percent more copper than a standard motor; (ii) electric vehicles, which consume up to four times the amount of copper in terms of weight compared to vehicles of similar size with an internal combustion engine, and require copper-intensive charging station infrastructure to refuel; and (iii) renewable energy such as wind and solar, which consume four to five times the amount of copper compared to traditional fossil fuel generated power. 3 table of contents gold gold is used for jewelry, coinage and bullion as well as various industrial and electronic applications. gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world. benchmark prices are generally based on london bullion market association (london) quotations. during 2018 , the london pm gold price averaged $1,268 per ounce, ranging from a low of $1,178 per ounce to a high of $1,355 per ounce, and was $1,279 per ounce on december 28, 2018 (there was no london pm gold price quote on december 31, 2018 ). molybdenum molybdenum is a key alloying element in steel and the raw material for several chemical-grade products used in catalysts, lubrication, smoke suppression, corrosion inhibition and pigmentation. molybdenum, as a high-purity metal, is also used in electronics such as flat-panel displays and in super alloys used in aerospace. reference prices for molybdenum are available in several publications, including metals week, cru report and metal bulletin . during 2018 , the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $11.93 per pound, ranging from a low of $10.67 per pound to a high of $12.97 per pound, and was $11.88 per pound at december 31, 2018 . products and sales our consolidated revenues for 2018 primarily included sales of copper ( 75 percent ), gold ( 17 percent ) and molybdenum ( 6 percent ). copper concentrate sales to pt smelting (pt-fi's 25-percent-owned copper smelter and refinery in indonesia) totaled 12 percent of our consolidated revenues for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, which is the only customer that accounted for 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues during the three years ended december 31, 2018 . refer to note 16 for a summary of our consolidated revenues and operating income (loss) by business segment and geographic area. copper products we are one of the world's leading producers of copper concentrate, cathode and continuous cast copper rod. during 2018 , 59 percent of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, 21 percent as cathode and 20 percent as rod from our north america operations. the copper ore from our mines is generally processed either by smelting and refining or by solution extraction and electrowinning (sx/ew) as described below. copper concentrate . we produce copper concentrate at six of our mines in which mined ore is crushed and treated to produce a copper concentrate with copper content of approximately 20 to 30 percent. in north america, copper concentrate is produced at the morenci, bagdad, sierrita and chino mines, and a significant portion is shipped to our miami smelter in arizona for further processing. copper concentrate is also produced at the cerro verde mine in peru and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. copper cathode . we produce copper cathode at our electrolytic refinery located in el paso, texas, and at nine of our mines. sx/ew cathode is produced from the morenci, bagdad, safford, sierrita, miami, chino and tyrone mines in north america, and from the cerro verde and el abra mines in south america . for ore subject to the sx/ew process, the ore is placed on stockpiles and copper is extracted from the ore by dissolving it with a weak sulphuric acid solution. the copper content of the solution is increased in two additional sx stages, and then the copper-bearing solution undergoes an ew process to produce cathode that is, on average, 99.99 percent copper. our copper cathode is used as the raw material input for copper rod, brass mill products and for other uses. copper cathode is also produced at atlantic copper (our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in spain) and pt smelting. copper concentrate is smelted ( i.e. , subjected to extreme heat) to produce copper anode, which weighs between 800 and 900 pounds and has an average copper content of 99.5 percent. the anode is further treated by electrolytic refining to produce copper cathode, which weighs between 100 and 350 pounds and has an average copper content of 99.99 percent. refer to mining operations - smelting facilities and other mining properties for further discussion of atlantic copper and pt smelting. continuous cast copper rod . we manufacture continuous cast copper rod at our facilities in el paso, texas; norwich, connecticut; and miami, arizona, primarily using copper cathode produced at our north america copper mines. 4 table of contents copper sales north america . the majority of the copper produced at our north america copper mines and refined in our el paso, texas, refinery is consumed at our rod plants to produce copper rod which is sold to wire and cable manufacturers. the remainder of our north america copper production is sold in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate under u.s. dollar-denominated annual contracts. cathode and rod contract prices are generally based on the prevailing commodity exchange inc. (comex - a division of nymex) monthly average settlement price for the month of shipment and include a premium. generally, copper cathode is sold to rod, brass or tube fabricators. during 2018 , 17 percent of our north america mines' copper concentrate sales volumes were shipped to atlantic copper for smelting and refining and sold as copper anode and copper cathode. south america . production from our south america mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under u.s. dollar-denominated, annual and multi-year contracts. during 2018 , our south america mines sold approximately 77 percent of their copper production in concentrate and 23 percent as cathode. substantially all of south america's copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average settlement copper prices. revenues from south america's concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties and treatment charges ( i.e., fees paid to smelters that are generally negotiated annually). in addition, because a portion of the metals contained in copper concentrate is unrecoverable from the smelting process, revenues from south america's concentrate sales are also recorded net of allowances for unrecoverable metals, which are a negotiated term of the contracts and vary by customer. indonesia . pt-fi sells its production in the form of copper concentrate, which contains significant quantities of gold and silver, primarily under u.s. dollar-denominated, long-term contracts. pt-fi also sells a small amount of copper concentrate in the spot market. following is a summary of pt-fi's aggregate percentage of concentrate sales to unaffiliated third parties, pt smelting and atlantic copper for the years ended december 31: 2018 2017 2016 third parties 60 % 54 % 56 % pt smelting 38 46 42 atlantic copper 2 2 100 % 100 % 100 % substantially all of pt-fi's concentrate sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average settlement copper prices. revenues from pt-fi's concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties, export duties, treatment charges and allowances for unrecoverable metals. gold products and sales we produce gold almost exclusively from the grasberg minerals district. gold is primarily sold as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes, which are a product of the smelting and refining process at atlantic copper. gold generally is priced at the average london price for a specified month near the month of shipment. revenues from gold sold as a component of our copper concentrate are recorded net of treatment and refining charges, royalties, export duties and allowances for unrecoverable metals. revenues from gold sold in slimes are recorded net of refining charges. molybdenum products and sales we are the world's largest producer of molybdenum and molybdenum-based chemicals. in addition to production from the henderson and climax molybdenum mines, we produce molybdenum concentrate at certain of the north america copper mines and the cerro verde copper mine in peru. the majority of our molybdenum concentrate is processed in our own conversion facilities. our molybdenum sales are primarily priced based on the average published metals week price for the month prior to the month of shipment. 5 labor matters at december 31, 2018 , we employed approximately 26,800 people (12,200 in north america, 7,100 in indonesia, 6,100 in south america and 1,400 in europe and other locations). we also had contractors that employ personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 23,400 at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia, 8,800 in north america, 5,900 at our south america mining operations and 700 in europe and other locations. employees represented by unions at december 31, 2018 , are listed below, with the number of employees represented and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements: location number of unions number of union- represented employees expiration date pt-fi indonesia 2 5,010 september 2019 cerro verde peru 1 3,304 august 2021 el abra chile 2 705 april 2020 atlantic copper spain 3 465 december 2019 a kokkola - finland 3 418 november 2020 rotterdam the netherlands 1 52 september 2019 kisanfu africa exploration 2 51 n/a b stowmarket - united kingdom 1 42 may 2020 a. the collective labor agreement between atlantic copper and its workers' unions expired in december 2015, but was extended through december 2019 by mutual agreement of both parties in accordance with spanish law. b. the collective labor agreement between kisanfu and its unions has no expiration date, but can be amended at any time in accordance with an established process. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further information on labor matters. environmental and reclamation matters the cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations is fundamental to and a substantial cost of our business. for information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to item 1a. risk factors and notes 1 and 12 . competition the top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately 45 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. we currently rank second among those producers, with approximately seven percent of estimated total worldwide mined copper production. our competitive position is based on the size, quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. we have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies, and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. the metals markets are cyclical, and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce, and to manage our costs. 6 table of contents mining operations following are maps and descriptions of our mining operations in north america (including both copper and molybdenum operations), south america and indonesia. north america in the u.s., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, sx/ew facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. certain portions of our bagdad, sierrita, miami, chino, tyrone, henderson and climax operations are located on government-owned land and are operated under a mine plan of operations or other use permit. we hold various federal and state permits or leases on government land for purposes incidental to mine operations. morenci we own a 72 percent undivided interest in morenci, with the remaining 28 percent owned by sumitomo metal mining arizona, inc. (15 percent) and smm morenci, inc. (13 percent). each partner takes in kind its share of morenci's production. morenci is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. morenci is located in greenlee county, arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of safford on u.s. highway 191. the site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur. the morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide. the morenci operation consists of two concentrators capable of milling 115,000 metric tons of ore per day, which produce copper and molybdenum concentrate; a 68,000 metric ton-per-day, crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a low-grade run-of-mine (rom) leaching system; four sx plants; and three ew tank houses that produce copper cathode. total ew tank house capacity is approximately 900 million pounds of copper per year. morenci's available mining fleet consists of one hundred and twenty-six 236-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 13 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 57 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 815,000 metric tons of material per day. morenci's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 12 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 , and 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 . morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 840 meters above sea level. the morenci operation encompasses approximately 73,950 acres, comprising 51,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 20,050 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public land and 2,750 acres of land held by state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-way. 7 table of contents the morenci operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility in deming, new mexico. although we believe the morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the morenci operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. bagdad our wholly owned bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in yavapai county in west-central arizona. it is approximately 60 miles west of prescott and 100 miles northwest of phoenix. the property can be reached by arizona highway 96, which ends at the town of bagdad. the closest railroad is at hillside, arizona, 24 miles southeast on arizona highway 96. the open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings. the bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite. the bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, an sx/ew plant that can produce up to 32 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure-leach plant to process molybdenum concentrate. the available mining fleet consists of thirty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 250,000 metric tons of material per day. bagdad's production totaled 199 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , 173 million pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 , and 177 million pounds of copper and 8 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 . bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 310 meters above sea level. the bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,750 acres, comprising 21,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 600 acres of unpatented mining claims. bagdad receives electrical power from arizona public service company. we believe the bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations. 8 table of contents safford our wholly owned safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in graham county, arizona, 8 miles north of the town of safford and 170 miles east of phoenix. the site is accessible by paved county road off u.s. highway 70. the safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite. the property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathode. the operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. the crushed ore is delivered to leach pads by a series of overland and portable conveyors. leach solutions feed a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. a sulfur burner plant is also in operation at safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in sx/ew operations. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-three 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 47 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 340,000 metric tons of material per day. safford's copper production totaled 123 million pounds in 2018 , 150 million pounds in 2017 and 230 million pounds in 2016 . through exploration drilling, we have identified a significant resource at our wholly owned lone star project located near the safford operation. an initial project to develop the lone star oxide ores commenced in first-quarter 2018, with first production expected by the end of 2020. initial production from the lone star oxide ores is expected to average approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. total capital costs, including mine equipment and pre-production stripping, are expected to approximate $850 million and will benefit from the utilization of existing infrastructure at the adjacent safford operation. as of december 31, 2018, approximately $290 million has been incurred for this project. the project also advances exposure to a significant sulfide resource. we expect to incorporate recent positive drilling and ongoing results in our future development plans. safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,768 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 808 meters above sea level. the safford operation encompasses approximately 125,000 acres, comprising 36,000 acres of patented lands, 73,000 acres of unpatented lands and 16,000 acres of land held by federal permit. the safford operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility. although we believe the safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations as well as the lone star project, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the safford operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 9 table of contents sierrita our wholly owned sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in pima county, arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of tucson and 7 miles west of the town of green valley and interstate highway 19. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. the sierrita operation includes a 100,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate. sierrita also produces copper from a rom oxide-leaching system. cathode copper is plated at the twin buttes ew facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. the sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. the molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. the available mining fleet consists of twenty-two 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 175,000 metric tons of material per day. sierrita's production totaled 152 million pounds of copper and 16 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , 160 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 , and 162 million pounds of copper and 14 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 . sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. the sierrita operation, including the adjacent twin buttes site (refer to smelting facilities and other mining properties for further discussion), encompasses approximately 37,650 acres, comprising 13,300 acres of patented mining claims and 24,350 acres of split-estate lands. sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the tucson electric power company. although we believe the sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the sierrita operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 10 table of contents miami our wholly owned miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in gila county, arizona, 90 miles east of phoenix and 6 miles west of the city of globe on u.s. highway 60. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. since about 1915, the miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. the design capacity of the sx/ew plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. miami is no longer mining ore, but currently produces copper through leaching material already placed on stockpiles, which is expected to continue until 2023. miami's copper production totaled 16 million pounds in 2018 , 19 million pounds in 2017 and 25 million pounds in 2016 . miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and mining advanced the pit bottom to an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. subsequent sloughing of material into the pit has filled it back to an elevation estimated to be 900 meters above sea level. the miami operation encompasses approximately 9,100 acres, comprising 8,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 350 acres of unpatented mining claims. miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the salt river project and natural gas through long-term contracts with el paso natural gas as the transporter. we believe the miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations. chino and tyrone chino our wholly owned chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in grant county, new mexico, approximately 15 miles east of the town of silver city off of state highway 180. the mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. chino has been in operation since 1910. 11 table of contents the chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. there is leachable oxide, secondary sulfide and millable primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides. the chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, and a 150 million pound-per-year sx/ew plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by rom leaching. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 235,000 metric tons of material per day. chino's copper production totaled 173 million pounds in 2018 , 215 million pounds in 2017 and 308 million pounds in 2016 . chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,460 meters above sea level. the chino operation encompasses approximately 118,600 acres, comprising 113,200 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 5,400 acres of unpatented mining claims. chino receives power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with recently proposed legislation in new mexico related to water quality standards. tyrone our wholly owned tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. it is located in grant county, new mexico, 10 miles south of silver city, new mexico, along state highway 90. the site is accessible by paved road and by rail. the tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite, with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla. copper processing facilities consist of a sx/ew operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathode per year. the available mining fleet consists of seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by one shovel with a bucket size of 47 cubic meters, which is capable of moving an average of 49,000 metric tons of material per day. tyrone's copper production totaled 55 million pounds in 2018 , 61 million pounds in 2017 and 76 million pounds in 2016 . tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,475 meters above sea level. the tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 16,450 acres of unpatented mining claims. tyrone receives electrical power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe the tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with recently proposed legislation in new mexico related to water quality standards. 12 table of contents henderson and climax henderson our wholly owned henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located 42 miles west of denver, colorado, off u.s. highway 40. nearby communities include the towns of empire, georgetown and idaho springs. the henderson mill site is located 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from colorado state highway 9. the henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the continental divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. the tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill. the henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 18 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our fort madison, iowa, processing facility. the available underground mining equipment fleet consists of fourteen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (lhd) units and seven 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles. henderson's molybdenum production totaled 14 million pounds in 2018 , 12 million pounds in 2017 and 10 million pounds in 2016 . the henderson mine is located in a mountainous region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. the main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,900 acres, comprising 11,850 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and a 50-acre easement with the u.s. forest service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor. henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with recently proposed legislation in colorado related to water quality standards. climax our wholly owned climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of leadville, colorado, off colorado state highway 91 at the top of fremont pass. the mine is accessible by paved roads . the climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the climax open-pit mine includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. climax has the capacity to produce approximately 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the available mining fleet consists of ten 177-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two hydraulic shovels with bucket sizes of 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 90,000 metric tons of material per day. molybdenum production from climax totaled 21 million pounds in 2018 , 20 million pounds in 2017 and 16 million pounds in 2016 . 13 table of contents the climax mine is located in a mountainous region. the highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the operations encompass approximately 14,350 acres, consisting primarily of patented mining claims and other fee lands. climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with anadarko energy and bp energy company (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with recently proposed legislation in colorado related to water quality standards. south america at our operations in south america, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. the claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements. cerro verde we have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in cerro verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by smm cerro verde netherlands b.v. (21.0 percent), compa ia de minas buenaventura s.a.a. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the lima stock exchange (5.86 percent). cerro verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of arequipa, peru. the site is accessible by paved highway. cerro verde's copper cathode and concentrate production that is not sold locally is transported approximately 70 miles by truck and by rail to the port of matarani for shipment to international markets. the cerro verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper pitch. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. cerro verde's operations benefit from its large-scale, long-lived reserves and cost efficiencies. during 2018, cerro verde received a modified environmental permit allowing it to operate its existing concentrator facilities at rates up to 409,500 metric tons of ore per day. cerro verde's operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 409,500 metric ton-per-day concentrator, and sx/ew leaching facilities. leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a 100,000 metric ton-per-day rom leach system. this sx/ew leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. the available fleet consists of thirty-four 290-metric ton haul trucks and ninety-three 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by twelve electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 57 cubic meters and two hydraulic 14 table of contents shovels with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters. this fleet is capable of moving an average of approximately 975,000 metric tons of material per day. cerro verde's production totaled 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 28 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 27 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 , and 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 21 million pounds of molybdenum in 2016 . cerro verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 2,750 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,553 meters above sea level. the peruvian general mining law and cerro verde's mining stability agreement grant the surface rights of mining concessions located on government land. additional government land, if obtained after 1997, must be leased or purchased. cerro verde has a mining concession covering approximately 182,000 acres, including access to 14,600 acres granted through an easement from the regional government of arequipa, plus 144 acres of owned property, and 367 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area. cerro verde receives electrical power, including hydro-generated power, under long-term contracts with kallpa generaci n sa, electroperu and engie energia peru s.a. water for our cerro verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. we believe the cerro verde operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. el abra we own a 51 percent interest in el abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise corporaci n nacional del cobre de chile (codelco). el abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of calama in chile's el loa province, region ii. the site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. the el abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. the predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. there is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization as chalcocite. the oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. there are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite. the el abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized rom leaching operation. the available fleet consists of twenty-two 266-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 29 to 41 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 214,000 metric tons of material per day. el abra's copper production totaled 200 million pounds in 2018 , 173 million pounds in 2017 and 220 million pounds in 2016 . beginning in the second half of 2015, el abra operated at reduced rates to achieve lower operating and labor costs, defer capital expenditures and extend the life of the existing operations. el abra resumed operating at full capacity during 2018. 15 table of contents we continue to evaluate a large-scale expansion at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. el abra's large sulfide resource could potentially support a major mill project similar to facilities constructed at cerro verde. technical and economic studies are being advanced to determine the optimal scope and timing for the project. el abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. refer to md&amp;a and item 1a. risk factors for discussion of recent weather-related events at el abra that are expected to impact its production volumes and costs. the highest bench elevation is 4,195 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,415 meters above sea level. el abra controls a total of approximately 169,400 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. in addition, el abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the salar de ascot n aquifer. el abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with engie energia chile s.a. water for our el abra processing operations comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. we believe el abra has sufficient water rights and regulatory approvals to support current operations. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors. indonesia ownership . pt-fi is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the republic of indonesia. on december 21, 2018, we completed the transaction with the indonesian government regarding pt-fi's long-term mining rights and share ownership (refer to note 2 for further discussion). following the transaction, we have a 48.76 percent share ownership in pt-fi and the remaining 51.24 percent share ownership is collectively held by pt inalum (an indonesian state-owned enterprise) and pti (which is expected to be owned by pt inalum and the provincial/regional government in papua, indonesia). the arrangements related to the transaction also provide for us and the other pre-transaction pt-fi shareholders to retain the economics of the revenue and cost sharing arrangements under the former rio tinto joint venture. as a result, our economic interest in pt-fi is expected to approximate 81 percent from 2019 through 2022. iupk. concurrent with closing the transaction, the indonesian government granted pt-fi an iupk to replace its former cow, enabling pt-fi to conduct operations in the grasberg minerals district through 2041. under the terms of the iupk, pt-fi has been granted an extension of mining rights through 2031, with rights to extend mining rights through 2041, subject to pt-fi completing the construction of a new smelter in indonesia within five years of closing the transaction and fulfilling its defined fiscal obligations to the indonesian government. the iupk, and related documentation, contains legal and fiscal terms and is legally enforceable through 2041. in addition, we, as a foreign investor, have rights to resolve investment disputes with the indonesian government through international 16 table of contents arbitration. refer to note 13 and item 1a. risk factors for discussion of pt-fi's iupk and risks associated with our indonesia mining operations. pt-fi has applied for a one-year extension of its export license, which currently expires on february 16, 2019. export licenses are valid for one year periods, subject to review and approval by the indonesian government every six months, depending on smelter construction progress. grasberg minerals district . pt-fi operates in the remote highlands of the sudirman mountain range in the province of papua, indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of new guinea. since 1967, we and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in the approximately 24,600-acre operating area. the grasberg minerals district has three operating mines, the grasberg open pit, the deep ore zone (doz) underground mine and the big gossan underground mine. in september 2015, pt-fi initiated pre-commercial production, which represents ore extracted during the development phase for the purpose of obtaining access to the ore body, at the deep mill level zone (dmlz) underground mine. as further discussed in md&amp;a, pt-fi continues to advance several projects in the grasberg minerals district related to the development of its large-scale, long-lived, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the grasberg open pit. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to produce large-scale quantities of copper and gold following the transition from the grasberg open pit operations where pt-fi is currently mining the final phase. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with development projects and underground mines. substantial progress has been made to prepare for the transition to mining of the grasberg block cave (gbc) underground mine. first undercut blasting occurred in september 2018, first drawbell blasting occurred in december 2018 and cave production is scheduled for the first half of 2019. all underground mining levels and the ore flow system are being commissioned. as pt-fi transitions mining from the open pit to underground, its production is expected to be significantly lower in 2019 and 2020, compared to 2018. metal production is expected to improve significantly by 2021 following a ramp-up period. gbc production rates over the next five years are expected to ramp up to 130,000 metric tons of ore per day. pt-fi's production, including the former rio tinto joint venture share, totaled 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 2.7 million ounces of gold in 2018 , 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 1.6 million ounces of gold in 2017 , and 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 1.1 million ounces of gold in 2016 . our principal source of power for all of our indonesia operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. a combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. our indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. grasberg open pit pt-fi began open-pit mining of the grasberg ore body in 1990. pt-fi is currently mining the final phase of the grasberg open pit and expects to transition to the gbc in the first half of 2019. production from the ore stockpiles, which are located outside of the pit limits, is expected to continue through the end of 2019. production in the open pit is currently at the 3,265- to 3,055-meter elevation level and totaled 49 million metric tons of ore in 2018 , which provided 75 percent of pt-fi's 2018 mill feed. the current open-pit equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. the larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 99 haul trucks with payloads of 200 metric tons and 15 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 42 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 275,000 metric tons of material per day. ore milled from the grasberg open pit averaged 133,300 metric tons per day in 2018 , 101,800 metric tons per day in 2017 and 119,700 metric tons per day in 2016 . 17 table of contents doz underground mine the doz ore body lies vertically below the now depleted intermediate ore zone. pt-fi began production from the doz ore body in 1989 using open-stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the grasberg open pit. production resumed in 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level. the doz is a mature block-cave mine that previously operated at 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. current operating rates from the doz underground mine are driven by the value of the incremental doz ore grade compared to the ore from the grasberg open pit and ore grade material from the development of the dmlz and gbc underground mines. ore milled from the doz underground mine averaged 33,800 metric tons of ore per day in 2018, 31,200 metric tons of ore per day in 2017 and 38,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2016. production at the doz underground mine is expected to continue through 2022. the doz mine fleet consists of 154 pieces of mobile equipment. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 44 lhd units and 20 haul trucks. each production lhd unit typically carries approximately 11 metric tons of ore. using ore passes and chutes, the lhd units transfer ore into 55 to 60 metric ton capacity haul trucks. the trucks dump into two gyratory crushers, and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. big gossan underground mine the big gossan mine lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. it is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. the mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. the crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. the belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. ore milled from the big gossan underground mine averaged 3,800 metric tons per day in 2018, 600 metric tons per day in 2017 and 900 metric tons per day in 2016. production at the big gossan underground mine is expected to continue through 2041. the big gossan mine fleet consists of over 78 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 13 lhd units and 10 haul trucks used in development and production activities. dmlz underground mine the dmlz ore body lies below the doz underground mine at the 2,590-meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the ertsberg east skarn system and neighboring ertsberg porphyry. during third-quarter 2018, pt-fi commenced hydraulic fracturing activities to manage rock stresses and pre-condition the dmlz underground mine for large-scale production following mining induced seismic activity experienced in 2017 and 2018. results to date have been effective in managing rock stresses and pre-conditioning the cave. pt-fi expects to commence the ramp-up of production in the dmlz underground mine by mid-2019 and to reach full production rates of 80,000 metric tons per day in 2022. estimates of timing of future production continue to be reviewed and may be modified as additional information becomes available. production at the dmlz underground mine is expected to continue through 2041. ore milled from the dmlz underground mine averaged 3,200 metric tons of ore per day in both 2018 and 2017, and 4,400 metric tons per day in 2016. the dmlz mine fleet consists of over 240 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 25 lhd units and 14 haul trucks used in production and development activities. description of indonesia ore bodies . our indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the grasberg monzodiorite and the ertsberg diorite. the host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the sudirman range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. the igneous-hosted ore bodies (the grasberg open pit and gbc, and portions of the doz) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. the sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the doz and all of 18 table of contents the big gossan) occur as magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. the copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district's ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. these gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. the following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported indonesia ore bodies. the following map, which encompasses an area of 42 square kilometers (16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported indonesia ore bodies and their locations. 19 table of contents smelting facilities and other mining properties atlantic copper . our wholly owned atlantic copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the huelva, spain, port authorities, which are scheduled to expire in 2039. the design capacity of the smelter is approximately 300,000 metric tons of copper per year, and the refinery has a capacity of 286,000 metric tons of copper per year. atlantic copper produced 295,300 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 283,100 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2018 ; 283,100 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 271,400 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2017; and 296,900 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 285,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2016. following is a summary of atlantic copper's concentrate purchases from unaffiliated third parties and our copper mining operations for the years ended december 31: 2018 2017 2016 third parties 77 % 67 % 77 % north america copper mines 14 18 13 south america mining 5 15 7 indonesia mining 4 3 100 % 100 % 100 % atlantic copper's major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with shorter-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. atlantic copper completed a 79-day major maintenance turnaround in 2013, a 16-day maintenance turnaround in 2015 and a 27-day maintenance turnaround in 2017. a 15-day maintenance turnaround is scheduled for third-quarter 2019. pt smelting . pt-fi's former cow required us to construct, or cause to be constructed, a smelter in indonesia if we and the indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. in 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of pt smelting, an indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia. pt smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. pt-fi owns 25 percent of pt smelting, with the remainder owned by mitsubishi materials corporation (60.5 percent), mitsubishi corporation rtm japan ltd. (9.5 percent) and jx nippon mining &amp; metals corporation (5 percent). pt-fi's contract with pt smelting requires pt-fi to supply 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (at market rates subject to a minimum or maximum treatment charge rate) necessary for pt smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. pt-fi may also sell copper concentrate to pt smelting at market rates for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. pt-fi supplied 90 percent of pt smelting's concentrate requirements in 2018, 93 percent in 2017 and 88 percent in 2016. in early 2017, the indonesian government issued new regulations to address exports of unrefined metals, including copper concentrate and anode slimes, and other matters related to the mining sector. these regulations permit the export of anode slimes, which is necessary for pt smelting to continue operating. as a result of labor disturbances and a delay in the renewal of its export license for anode slimes, pt smelting's operations were shut down from mid-january 2017 until early march 2017. pt smelting has applied for a one-year extension of its anode slimes export license, which currently expires february 26, 2019. pt smelting produced 258,800 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 257,600 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2018 ; 245,800 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 247,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2017; and 255,700 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 241,700 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2016. pt smelting's maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2020. pt smelting completed a 25-day maintenance turnaround during 2016, and a 30-day maintenance turnaround during 2018. in addition to pt smelting's scheduled annual maintenance in november 2018, pt smelting also experienced downtime in december 2018 caused by unscheduled maintenance at its sole-source oxygen supplier. this resulted in a temporary shutdown of pt smelting's operations in december 2018. 20 table of contents miami smelter . we own and operate a smelter at our miami mining operation in arizona. the smelter has been operating for approximately 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, improve production and comply with air quality requirements. in 2018, the miami smelter completed the installation of emission control equipment that allows it to operate in compliance with current air quality standards. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. the miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our north america copper mines. concentrate processed through the smelter totaled 729,900 metric tons in 2018 , 612,600 metric tons in 2017 and 673,300 metric tons in 2016. in addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrate, the miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our north america leaching operations. major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) are anticipated to occur approximately every three years for the miami smelter, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. the miami smelter completed a major maintenance turnaround in second-quarter 2017, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2020. rod &amp; refining operations . our rod &amp; refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in north america, including a refinery in el paso, texas; rod mills in el paso, texas, norwich, connecticut, and miami, arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in bayway, new jersey. we refine our copper anode production from our miami smelter at our el paso refinery. the el paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at our miami smelter. our el paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. molybdenum conversion facilities . we process molybdenum concentrate at our conversion plants in the u.s. and europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates and molybdenum disulfide. we operate molybdenum roasters in sierrita, arizona; fort madison, iowa; and rotterdam, the netherlands, and we operate a molybdenum pressure-leach plant in bagdad, arizona. we also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in stowmarket, united kingdom. freeport cobalt . in march 2013, we acquired a cobalt chemical refinery in kokkola, finland, and the related sales and marketing business which provided direct end-market access for the cobalt hydroxide production at the tenke fungurume (tenke) mine in the democratic republic of congo, in which we held an interest prior to our sale of tf holdings limited (tfhl) in 2016. we are the operator of freeport cobalt with an effective 56 percent ownership interest. the remaining effective ownership interest is held by lundin mining corporation (24 percent) and la g n rale des carri res et des mines (20 percent). the kokkola refinery has an annual refining capacity of approximately 15,000 metric tons of cobalt. as further discussed in note 2, we continue to market the freeport cobalt assets. other north america copper mines . we also have five non-operating copper mines ajo, bisbee, tohono, twin buttes and christmas, which are located in arizona that have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require new or updated environmental studies, new permits, and additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status. mining development projects and exploration activities capital expenditures for mining operations totaled $2.0 billion (including $1.2 billion for major projects) in 2018 , $1.4 billion (including $0.9 billion for major projects) in 2017 and $1.6 billion (including $1.2 billion for major projects) in 2016 . capital expenditures for major projects during 2018 were primarily associated with underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district and development of the lone star oxide project. capital expenditures for major projects during 2017 and 2016 were primarily associated with the cerro verde expansion project and ongoing underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district. refer to md&amp;a for projected capital expenditures for the year 2019. pt-fi has also committed to construct a new smelter in indonesia by december 21, 2023. pt-fi is initiating front-end engineering and design and intends to pursue financing, commercial and potential partner arrangements for this project, which has a preliminary estimated capital cost in the $3 billion range. the economics of the new smelter will be borne by pt-fi's shareholders according to their respective long-term share ownership percentages. 21 table of contents we have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. as further discussed in md&amp;a, our near-term major development projects primarily include the underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district and development of the lone star oxide project. considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. additionally, in response to market conditions, the timing of our expenditures will continue to be reviewed. we continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our mineral reserves. we also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the grasberg minerals district for the kucing liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. we expect to mine the kucing liar ore body using the block-cave method; aggregate capital cost estimates for development of the kucing liar ore body are projected to approximate $3.8 billion (which are expected to be made between 2020 and 2032). additionally, our current mine development plans include approximately $6.0 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once the grasberg open-pit operations cease. we expect substantially all of these expenditures to be made between 2019 and 2034. the timing and development of this project is currently being reviewed. our mining exploration activities are generally associated with our existing mines focusing on opportunities to expand reserves and resources to support development of additional future production capacity. exploration results continue to indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions in north america and south america. exploration spending associated with mining operations totaled $78 million in 2018 , $72 million in 2017 and $44 million in 2016 . refer to md&amp;a for projected exploration expenditures for the year 2019. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion of risks associated with mine development projects and exploration activities and of risks associated with pt-fi's iupk. sources and availability of energy, natural resources and raw materials our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented approximately 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2018 , including purchases of approximately 220 million gallons of diesel fuel; 8,150 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america and south america copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 740 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 million mmbtu (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. based on current cost estimates, energy will approximate 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2019 . our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. for a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. sulphuric acid is used in the sx/ew process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulfur burners at the safford mine. sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties. 22 table of contents community and human rights we have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. we continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs clean water and sanitation projects public health programs, including malaria control and human immunodeficiency virus agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs basic education programs cultural promotion and preservation programs community infrastructure development charitable donations in december 2000, we endorsed the joint u.s. state department-british foreign office voluntary principles on human rights and security (voluntary principles). we participated in developing these voluntary principles with other major natural resource companies and international human rights organizations and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. the voluntary principles provide guidelines for our security programs, including interaction with host-government security personnel, private security contractors and our internal security employees. our human rights policy, most recently updated in august 2017, reflects our full commitment to the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights. we have embarked on a program to plan and conduct site-level human rights impact assessments (hria) at our global operations. hrias help us to embed human rights considerations into our business practices, including site-level sustainable development risk registers. we completed a hria at our cerro verde operation in peru in 2017 and at our new mexico mining operations in 2018. we also participate in a multi-industry human rights working group to gain insight from peer companies. we believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. as part of our ongoing commitment to sustainable community development, we make significant investments in social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations. over the last three years, these investments have averaged $150 million per year. nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. south america . cerro verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, cerro verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve arequipa. in addition, an agreement was reached with the peruvian government for development of a water storage network that was financed by cerro verde and a distribution network that was financed by the cerro verde civil association. cerro verde reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, the local water utility company and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa, which was completed in 2015. the wastewater treatment plant supplements existing water supplies to support cerro verde's concentrator expansion and also improves the local water quality, enhances agriculture products grown in the area and reduces the risk of waterborne illnesses. in addition to these projects, cerro verde annually makes significant community development investments in the arequipa region. security matters . consistent with our operating permits in peru and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, cerro verde maintains its own internal security department. both employees and contractors perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights and voluntary principles training annually. some contractors assigned to protection of expatriate personnel are armed. these contractors also receive training in defensive driving and firearms handling. cerro verde's costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $8 million in both 2018 and 2017 and $6 million in 2016. 23 table of contents cerro verde, like all businesses and residents of peru, relies on the peruvian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the peruvian government is responsible for employing police personnel and directing their operations. cerro verde has limited public security forces in support of its operation, with the arrangement defined through a memorandum of understanding with the peruvian national police. cerro verde's share of support costs for government-provided security approximated $1 million in each of the years 2018, 2017 and 2016. indonesia . in 1996, pt-fi established the freeport partnership fund for community development (the partnership fund) through which pt-fi has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education, economic development and local infrastructure. pt-fi has committed through june 2019 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local communities in its area of operations through the partnership fund. pt-fi recorded costs of $55 million in 2018 , $44 million in 2017 and $33 million in 2016 for this commitment. the amungme and kamoro community development organization ( lembaga pengembangan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro or lpmak) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the partnership fund. lpmak is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local amungme and kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of pt-fi on each board. the amungme and kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. in addition to the partnership fund, pt-fi makes significant annual investments in public health, education, community infrastructure and local economic development. security matters . consistent with our ongoing commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, pt-fi maintains its own internal civilian security department. both employees and contractors are unarmed and perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights training annually. pt-fi's costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $59 million in 2018 , $54 million in 2017 and $58 million in 2016 . pt-fi, like all businesses and residents of indonesia, relies on the indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and protection of personnel and property. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesian government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. this designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. the indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. from the outset of pt-fi's operations, the indonesian government has looked to pt-fi to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in papua. pt-fi's financial support of the indonesian government security institutions assigned to pt-fi's operations area represents a prudent response to pt-fi's requirements and commitments to protect its workforce and property, and better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged and have the logistical resources to patrol pt-fi's roads and secure its area of operations. in addition, the provision of such support is consistent with our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and reflects our commitment to pursue practices that promote human rights. pt-fi's support costs for the government-provided security totaled $27 million in 2018 , $23 million in 2017 and $20 million in 2016 . this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, including food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion of security risks in indonesia. 24 table of contents mining production and sales data years ended december 31, production sales copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 (fcx's net interest in %) north america morenci (72%) a 684 737 848 700 713 855 bagdad (100%) 199 173 177 197 164 180 safford (100%) 123 150 230 127 154 229 sierrita (100%) 152 160 162 154 154 162 miami (100%) 16 19 25 16 18 27 chino (100%) 173 215 308 176 217 308 tyrone (100%) 55 61 76 56 61 75 other (100%) 2 3 5 2 3 5 total north america 1,404 1,518 1,831 1,428 1,484 1,841 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 1,049 1,062 1,108 1,051 1,062 1,105 el abra (51%) 200 173 220 202 173 227 total south america 1,249 1,235 1,328 1,253 1,235 1,332 indonesia grasberg minerals district b 1,160 984 1,063 1,130 981 1,054 consolidated - continuing operations 3,813 3,737 4,222 c 3,811 d 3,700 d 4,227 c,d less noncontrolling interests 695 670 722 694 670 723 net 3,118 3,067 3,500 3,117 3,030 3,504 average realized price per pound (continuing operations) $ 2.91 $ 2.93 $ 2.28 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) north america (100%) 23 23 27 23 22 25 indonesia b 2,416 1,554 1,061 2,366 1,540 1,054 consolidated 2,439 1,577 1,088 2,389 1,562 1,079 less noncontrolling interests 228 145 99 223 144 99 net 2,211 1,432 989 2,166 1,418 980 average realized price per ounce $ 1,254 $ 1,268 $ 1,238 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) henderson (100%) 14 12 10 n/a n/a n/a climax (100%) 21 20 16 n/a n/a n/a north america copper mines (100%) a 32 33 33 n/a n/a n/a cerro verde (53.56%) 28 27 21 n/a n/a n/a consolidated 95 92 80 94 95 74 less noncontrolling interest 13 13 9 13 12 6 net 82 79 71 81 83 68 average realized price per pound $ 12.50 $ 9.33 $ 8.33 a. amounts are net of morenci's undivided joint venture partners' interest; effective may 31, 2016, our undivided interest in morenci was prospectively reduced from 85 percent to 72 percent (refer to note 2 for further discussion). b. amounts are net of the former rio tinto joint venture interest. on december 21, 2018, we completed the transaction with the indonesian government regarding pt-fi's long-term mining rights and share ownership, resulting in a reduction of our share ownership in pt-fi from 90.64 percent to 48.76 percent (refer to note 2 for further discussion). our economic interest in pt-fi is expected to approximate 81 percent from 2019 through 2022. c. excludes 425 million pounds of copper production and 424 million pounds of copper sales associated with discontinued operations. in november 2016, we completed the sale of our interest in tfhl, through which we held an interest in the tenke mine (refer to note 2 for further discussion). d. excludes purchased copper of 356 million pounds in 2018, 273 million pounds in 2017 and 188 million pounds in 2016. 25 table of contents mineral reserves proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. the term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the term proven reserves means reserves for which (i) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (ii) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (iii) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. the term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with our estimates of proven and probable reserves. estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at december 31, 2018 , were determined using $2.50 per pound for copper in north america and south america and $2.00 per pound for copper in indonesia, $1,000 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. reserves for indonesia would not significantly change if assessed under a long-term price of $2.50 per pound of copper as pt-fi's reserve plan is mill-constrained by the term of its iupk, which contains rights to extend mining rights through 2041. for the three-year period ended december 31, 2018 , lme copper settlement prices averaged $2.65 per pound, london pm gold prices averaged $1,259 per ounce and the weekly average price for molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $8.85 per pound. in late 2015, we incorporated changes in the commercial pricing structure for our molybdenum-based chemical products to enable continuation of chemical-grade production. the estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. recoverable reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2018 copper a (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) north america 49.9 0.6 3.06 south america 33.5 0.72 indonesia 36.2 b 30.2 b consolidated basis c 119.6 30.8 3.78 net equity interest d 86.8 17.0 3.44 a. estimated consolidated recoverable copper reserves include 2.0 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 0.6 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (refer to mill and leach stockpiles for further discussion). b. includes 13.0 billion pounds of copper and 10.1 million ounces of gold associated with pt-fi's acquisition of the rio tinto joint venture interest. preliminary estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves from indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through 2041. refer to item 1a. risk factors. c. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our morenci joint venture). excluded from the table above are our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves of 393.1 million ounces of silver, which were determined using $15 per ounce and include 55.7 million ounces associated with pt-fi's acquisition of the rio tinto joint venture interest. d. net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries). excluded from the table above are our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves of 269.3 million ounces of silver. our net equity interest for estimated metal quantities in indonesia reflects approximately 81 percent from 2019 through 2022 and 48.76 percent from 2023 through 2041. 26 table of contents estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2018 proven reserves probable reserves average ore grade average ore grade processing million copper gold moly silver million copper gold moly silver method metric tons % g/t % g/t metric tons % g/t % g/t north america morenci mill 665 0.34 0.02 245 0.32 0.02 crushed leach 446 0.52 110 0.47 rom leach 2,222 0.17 931 0.16 bagdad mill 1,721 0.34 a 0.02 1.43 625 0.30 a 0.02 1.26 rom leach 13 0.27 67 0.17 safford, including lone star crushed leach 665 0.45 174 0.41 sierrita mill 2,972 0.23 a 0.02 1.36 397 0.20 a 0.02 1.16 chino, including cobre mill 168 0.54 0.05 0.01 0.93 106 0.54 0.04 0.01 0.92 rom leach 112 0.29 9 0.26 tyrone rom leach 49 0.26 6 0.21 henderson mill 58 0.18 13 0.13 climax mill 158 0.15 10 0.09 9,249 2,693 south america cerro verde mill 830 0.36 0.01 1.90 3,361 0.36 0.01 1.89 crushed leach 26 0.40 37 0.27 rom leach 18 0.21 52 0.15 el abra crushed leach 488 0.44 200 0.40 rom leach 9 0.17 8 0.18 1,371 3,658 indonesia dmlz mill 78 0.99 0.83 4.64 354 0.91 0.75 4.36 grasberg open pit mill 1 2.65 5.70 7.97 4 1.08 1.51 3.12 doz mill 14 0.54 0.67 2.29 37 0.48 0.53 2.23 big gossan mill 18 2.42 1.03 15.15 39 2.24 1.02 13.50 gbc mill 316 1.11 0.86 3.86 647 0.89 0.66 3.54 kucing liar b mill 131 1.31 1.09 6.60 218 1.19 0.99 5.59 558 1,299 total fcx - 100% basis 11,178 7,650 a. grade rounds to less than 0.01 g/t. b. would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. the reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below: g/t grams per metric ton moly molybdenum 27 table of contents estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2018 (continued) proven and probable average ore grade recoveries a processing million copper gold moly silver copper gold moly silver method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % north america morenci mill 910 0.33 0.02 79.8 49.4 crushed leach 556 0.51 78.3 rom leach 3,153 0.16 42.4 bagdad mill 2,346 0.33 b 0.02 1.39 86.2 59.1 70.8 49.3 rom leach 80 0.19 24.7 safford, including lone star crushed leach 839 0.44 71.4 sierrita mill 3,369 0.23 b 0.02 1.34 82.1 60.0 78.1 49.3 chino, including cobre mill 274 0.54 0.04 0.01 0.93 80.4 74.6 26.0 75.2 rom leach 121 0.29 44.4 tyrone rom leach 55 0.25 52.5 henderson mill 71 0.17 89.9 climax mill 168 0.15 89.6 11,942 south america cerro verde mill 4,191 0.36 0.01 1.89 86.2 54.2 44.7 crushed leach 63 0.33 81.1 rom leach 70 0.17 47.9 el abra crushed leach 688 0.43 54.5 rom leach 17 0.18 41.6 5,029 indonesia dmlz mill 432 0.92 0.76 4.41 86.8 79.2 64.4 grasberg open pit mill 5 1.26 1.98 3.66 91.8 89.1 43.2 doz mill 51 0.50 0.57 2.25 90.1 85.3 67.9 big gossan mill 57 2.30 1.02 14.02 91.4 67.8 63.7 gbc mill 963 0.96 0.72 3.64 84.0 63.2 55.7 kucing liar c mill 349 1.24 1.03 5.97 85.2 45.7 40.4 1,857 total fcx - 100% basis 18,828 a. recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. b. grade rounds to less than 0.01 g/t. c. would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. 28 table of contents estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2018 (continued) recoverable reserves copper gold moly silver fcx's processing billion million billion million interest method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. north america morenci 72% mill 5.3 0.18 crushed leach 4.9 rom leach 4.9 bagdad 100% mill 14.6 0.1 0.74 51.5 rom leach 0.1 safford, including lone star 100% crushed leach 5.9 sierrita 100% mill 13.8 0.2 1.42 71.3 chino, including cobre 100% mill 2.6 0.3 0.01 6.2 rom leach 0.4 tyrone 100% rom leach 0.2 henderson 100% mill 0.24 climax 100% mill 0.50 52.7 0.6 3.09 129.0 recoverable metal in stockpiles a 1.6 0.02 100% operations 54.3 0.6 3.11 129.0 consolidated 49.9 0.6 3.06 129.0 net equity interest 49.9 0.6 3.06 129.0 south america cerro verde 53.56% mill 28.4 0.71 113.7 crushed leach 0.4 rom leach 0.1 el abra 51% crushed leach 3.6 rom leach b 32.5 0.71 113.7 recoverable metal in stockpiles a 1.0 0.01 1.8 100% operations 33.5 0.72 115.5 consolidated 33.5 0.72 115.5 net equity interest 17.8 0.38 61.9 indonesia dmlz c mill 7.6 8.4 39.5 grasberg open pit c mill 0.1 0.3 0.3 doz c mill 0.5 0.8 2.5 big gossan c mill 2.6 1.3 16.3 gbc c mill 17.2 14.1 62.8 kucing liar c mill 8.1 5.2 27.0 36.1 30.1 148.4 recoverable metal in stockpiles a 0.1 0.1 0.2 100% operations 36.2 30.2 148.6 consolidated 36.2 30.2 148.6 net equity interest 19.1 16.4 78.4 total fcx 100% basis 124.0 30.8 3.83 393.1 total fcx consolidated basis d 119.6 30.8 3.78 393.1 total fcx net equity interest e 86.8 17.0 3.44 269.3 a. refer to mill and leach stockpiles for additional information. b. pounds round to less than 0.1 billion pounds of copper. c. on december 21, 2018, we completed the transaction with the indonesian government regarding pt-fi's long-term mining rights and share ownership, resulting in a reduction of our share ownership in pt-fi from 90.64 percent to 48.76 percent (refer to note 2 for further discussion). d. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for morenci's joint venture partner interests (refer to note 3 for further discussion). e. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries). our net equity interest for estimated metal quantities in indonesia reflects approximately 81 percent from 2019 through 2022 and 48.76 percent from 2023 through 2041. 29 table of contents in defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. the objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. we use a break-even cutoff grade to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. the break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum and silver. we value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. the calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. the table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of december 31, 2018 : copper equivalent cutoff grade (percent) molybdenum cutoff grade (percent) mill crushed leach rom leach mill north america morenci 0.17 0.12 0.03 bagdad 0.15 0.08 safford, including lone star 0.08 sierrita 0.15 chino, including cobre 0.19 0.05 tyrone 0.03 henderson 0.12 climax 0.05 south america cerro verde 0.15 0.12 0.08 el abra 0.11 0.06 indonesia dmlz 0.89 grasberg open pit 0.25 doz 0.89 big gossan 1.77 gbc 0.80 kucing liar 0.97 30 table of contents drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. the following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: average drill hole spacing (in meters) proven probable mining unit mill leach mill leach north america morenci open pit 86 86 122 122 bagdad open pit 86 86 122 122 safford, including lone star open pit 86 122 sierrita open pit 73 104 chino open pit 43 86 86 122 cobre open pit 61 61 91 91 tyrone open pit 86 86 henderson block cave 47 96 climax open pit 61 91 south america cerro verde open pit 55 55 110 110 el abra open pit 75 120 indonesia dmlz block cave 21 63 grasberg open pit open pit 25 51 doz block cave 22 55 big gossan open stope 12 35 gbc block cave 28 66 kucing liar block cave 39 96 31 table of contents production sequencing the following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body and related stockpiles. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and our current mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that pt-fi will comply with its obligations under the iupk and receive the second 10-year extension from 2031 through 2041 (refer to item 1a. risk factors and note 13 for further discussion). production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. the sequencing dates shown in the chart below include development activity that results in metal production. the ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. in addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below. mill and leach stockpiles mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from an ore body and are available for metal recovery. mill stockpiles contain sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. leach stockpiles contain oxide ores and certain secondary sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. because it is impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. 32 table of contents expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. total copper recovery in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including processing methodology, processing variables, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 80 percent of total copper recovery may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of december 31, 2018 : recoverable million average recovery copper metric tons ore grade (%) rate (%) (billion pounds) mill stockpiles cerro verde 104 0.27 74.1 0.5 grasberg minerals district 13 0.49 71.6 0.1 117 0.6 leach stockpiles morenci 6,596 0.24 1.6 0.5 bagdad 499 0.25 0.4 a safford, including lone star 289 0.43 8.5 0.3 sierrita 650 0.15 9.9 0.2 miami 498 0.39 1.5 0.1 chino, including cobre 1,743 0.25 3.7 0.4 tyrone 1,148 0.28 2.1 0.1 cerro verde 488 0.47 5.0 0.2 el abra 744 0.44 4.5 0.3 12,655 2.1 total fcx - 100% basis 2.7 total fcx - consolidated basis b 2.6 total fcx - net equity interest c 2.1 a. rounds to less than 0.1 billion pounds of recoverable copper. b. consolidated stockpiles represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for morenci's joint venture partner interests. refer to note 3 for further discussion. c. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries). our net equity interest for estimated metal quantities in grasberg minerals district reflects approximately 81 percent from 2019 through 2022 and 48.76 percent from 2023 through 2041. mineralized material we hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. however, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $3.00 per pound for copper, $1,200 per ounce for gold, $12 per pound for molybdenum and $20 per ounce for silver. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with our estimates of mineralized material. 33 table of contents estimated mineralized material at december 31, 2018 milling material leaching material total mineralized material million million million fcx's metric copper gold moly silver metric copper metric interest tons % g/t % g/t tons % tons north america morenci 72% 1,192 0.28 0.02 1,584 0.18 2,776 bagdad 100% 474 0.32 a 0.02 1.4 2 0.14 476 safford, including lone star 100% 665 0.52 0.07 1.4 792 0.30 1,457 sierrita 100% 1,378 0.17 a 0.02 1.0 1,378 chino, including cobre 100% 236 0.41 0.02 0.01 0.7 24 0.22 260 tyrone 100% 157 0.23 157 henderson 100% 103 0.14 103 climax 100% 357 0.16 357 ajo 100% 585 0.37 0.06 0.01 0.8 585 cochise/bisbee 100% 306 0.44 306 sanchez 100% 211 0.28 211 tohono 100% 279 0.68 291 0.66 570 twin buttes 100% 359 0.46 0.03 4.9 144 0.20 503 christmas 100% 398 0.37 0.05 a 1.0 398 south america cerro verde 53.56% 1,242 0.35 0.01 1.8 17 0.20 1,259 el abra 51% 2,124 0.40 0.02 0.01 1.3 138 0.25 2,262 indonesia grasberg minerals district 48.76% 2,613 0.68 0.60 3.6 2,613 africa kisanfu b 95% 77 1.83 64 2.39 141 total fcx - 100% basis 12,082 3,730 15,812 total fcx - consolidated basis c 11,748 3,285 15,033 total fcx - net equity interest d 8,788 3,206 11,994 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. stated tonnage also includes cobalt (0.95 percent for milling material and 0.97 percent for leaching material). c. consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for morenci's joint venture partner interests. refer to note 3 for further discussion. d. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. 34 table of contents oil and gas operations as further discussed in note 2 , during the three years ended december 31, 2018, we completed the sales of substantially all of our oil and gas properties. as a result, our portfolio of oil and gas assets at december 31, 2018 , included natural gas production onshore in south louisiana and oil production offshore in california, which had estimated proved developed reserves of 7.2 million barrels of oil equivalents (mmboe). exploration and development activities capital expenditures associated with oil and gas properties totaled $2 million in 2018, and we have no plans to incur significant capital expenditures associated with oil and gas properties in future periods. capital expenditures for our oil and gas operations totaled $34 million in 2017 and $1.2 billion in 2016 (including $0.6 billion incurred for gulf of mexico and $0.5 billion for changes in capital expenditure accruals). production and sales data oil and gas sales totaled 3.1 mmboe in 2018 and 4.6 mmboe in 2017. oil and gas production and sales for the year 2016 totaled 47.1 mmboe, including 34.4 million barrels (mmbbls) of oil, 65.1 billion cubic feet of natural gas and 1.8 mmbbls of natural gas liquids. productive wells at december 31, 2018 and 2017, the total number of active producing oil and gas wells was not significant. at december 31, 2016 , we had working interests in 120 gross (94 net) active producing oil wells and 640 gross (100 net) active producing natural gas wells. drilling activities as of and for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, there were no exploratory or development wells drilled or in progress. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we drilled 3 gross (2 net) exploratory productive wells and 9 gross (5 net) development productive wells. item 1a. risk factors. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of united states (u.s.) federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as projections or expectations relating to ore grades and milling rates; production and sales volumes; unit net cash costs; operating cash flows; capital expenditures; our expectations regarding our share of pt freeport indonesia's (pt-fi) future cash flows through 2022; pt-fi's development, financing, construction and completion of a new smelter in indonesia; exploration efforts and results; development and production activities, rates and costs; liquidity; tax rates; supply of and demand for, and the impact of, copper, gold and molybdenum price changes; the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings; reserve estimates; future dividend payments; and share purchases and sales. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. we caution readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, expected, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following: financial risks fluctuations in the market prices of copper, gold and molybdenum have caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in our financial performance and in the trading prices of our debt and common stock. extended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and, to a lesser extent, molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and asset values and, if sustained, may adversely affect our ability to repay debt. our financial results will vary with fluctuations in the market prices of the commodities we produce, primarily copper and gold, and to a lesser extent molybdenum. an extended decline in market prices of these commodities could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, the value of our assets and/or our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations; and may depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. 35 table of contents additionally, if market prices for our primary commodities decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. we may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, in which case we may incur losses, and those losses may be material. fluctuations in commodities prices are caused by varied and complex factors beyond our control, including global supply and demand balances and inventory levels; global economic and political conditions; international regulatory, trade and tax policies, including national tariffs; commodities investment activity and speculation; interest rates; the strength of the u.s. dollar compared to foreign currencies; the price and availability of substitute products; and changes in technology. volatility in global economic growth, particularly in developing economies, has the potential to adversely affect future demand and prices for commodities. geopolitical uncertainty and protectionism, including the united kingdom's plans to exit from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit), have the potential to inhibit international trade and negatively impact business confidence, which creates the risk of constraints on our ability to trade in certain markets and has the potential to increase price volatility. copper prices may be affected by demand from china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world, and by changes in demand for industrial, commercial and residential products containing copper. rising trade tensions between the u.s. and china and efforts by the chinese government to reduce debt levels contributed to a recent slowdown in china's growth. a continued slowing in china's economic growth and demand and continued trade tensions between the u.s. and china could result in lower copper prices which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations, including cash flow. the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions, changes in the state of china-u.s. relations, including the current trade war, or other governmental action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies are difficult to predict and could adversely affect demand for our products, our costs, our customers, our suppliers, and the u.s. economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. copper prices have fluctuated historically, with london metal exchange (lme) copper settlement prices ranging from $1.96 per pound to $3.29 per pound during the three years ended december 31, 2018 . lme copper settlement prices averaged $2.96 per pound in 2018, $2.80 per pound in 2017 and $2.21 per pound in 2016. the lme copper settlement price was $2.71 per pound on december 31, 2018 , and $2.79 per pound on january 31, 2019 . factors affecting gold prices may include the relative strength of the u.s. dollar to other currencies, inflation and interest rate expectations, purchases and sales of gold by governments and central banks, demand from china and india, two of the world ' largest consumers of gold, and global demand for jewelry containing gold. the london pm gold price averaged $1,268 per ounce in 2018, $1,257 per ounce in 2017 and $1,250 per ounce in 2016. the london pm gold price was $1,279 per ounce on december 28, 2018 (there was no london pm gold price quote on december 31, 2018 ), and $1,323 per ounce on january 31, 2019 . the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price averaged $11.93 per pound in 2018, $8.21 per pound in 2017 and $6.47 per pound in 2016. the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price was $11.88 per pound on december 31, 2018 , and $10.95 per pound on january 31, 2019 . declines in prices of commodities we sell could result in metals inventory adjustments and impairment charges for our long-lived assets. other events that could result in impairment of our long-lived assets include, but are not limited to, decreases in estimated proven and probable mineral reserves and any event that might have a material adverse effect on current and future expected mine production costs. our debt and other financial commitments may limit our financial and operating flexibility. at december 31, 2018 , our total consolidated debt was $ 11.1 billion (see note 8 ) and our total consolidated cash was $4.2 billion . we also have various other financial commitments, including reclamation and environmental obligations, take-or-pay contracts and leases. for further information, refer to the risk factor below relating to mine closure and reclamation regulations and plugging and abandonment obligations related to our remaining oil and gas properties. 36 table of contents our level of indebtedness and other financial commitments could have important consequences to our business, including the following: limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and/or material contingencies, to engage in future development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt; requiring us to sell assets to reduce debt; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. any failure to comply with the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements may result in an event of default that would allow the creditors to accelerate maturities of the related debt, which in turn may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt agreements. our available cash and liquidity may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our debt instruments that are accelerated upon an event of default. from august 2015 through november 2016, we sold 326.5 million shares of our common stock under registered at-the-market equity programs, which generated $3.5 billion in gross proceeds (refer to note 10 ). in addition, during 2016, we issued 48.1 million shares of our common stock in connection with the settlement of two drilling rig contracts (refer to note 13 ) and 27.7 million shares of our common stock in exchange for $369 million of fcx senior notes (refer to note 10 ). any additional issuance of equity capital to fund operations, reduce debt, improve our financial position or for other purposes, may have a negative impact on our stock price. as of january 31, 2019 , our senior unsecured debt was rated bb with a stable outlook by standard &amp; poor's (s&amp;p), bb+ with a negative outlook by fitch ratings (fitch), and ba2 with a stable outlook by moody's investors service (moody's). there is no assurance that our credit ratings will not be downgraded in the future. certain of our debt agreements, including our revolving credit facility, use the london interbank offered rate (libor) as a reference rate. in july 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. if libor is unavailable after 2021, our debt with interest rates that are indexed to libor will be determined using various alternative methods to the extent provided for in our agreements, which could result in increases in interest rates on such debt. further, we may need to renegotiate our debt agreements and the loans that utilize libor to replace libor with the new standard that is established by the u.s. alternative rate reference committee, which is currently expected to be the secured overnight bank financing rate. mine closure and reclamation regulations impose substantial costs on our operations and include requirements that we provide financial assurance supporting those obligations. we also have plugging and abandonment obligations related to our remaining oil and gas properties, and are required to provide bonds or other forms of financial assurance in connection with those properties. changes in or the failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. we are required by u.s. federal and state laws and regulations to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans for our mining properties if we are unable to do so. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and state agencies may also require financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions that are required under settlements of enforcement actions under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980 (cercla) or similar state laws. refer to note 12 for additional information regarding our financial assurance obligations. with respect to our mining operations, most of our financial assurance obligations are imposed by state laws that vary significantly by jurisdiction, depending on how each state regulates land use and groundwater quality. although section 108(b) of cercla has required epa to identify classes of facilities that must establish evidence of financial responsibility since cercla was adopted in 1980, currently, there are no financial assurance requirements for 37 table of contents active mining operations under cercla. in response to litigation initiated by several environmental organizations against epa and a subsequent settlement, epa proposed financial assurance regulations for the hard rock mining industry in january 2017, which were vigorously opposed by us and others in the mining industry. as proposed, the rules would have imposed financial responsibility obligations on u.s. hard rock mining operations that are unnecessary, duplicative of existing state and other federal requirements, and unreasonable. our initial calculations suggested that the financial responsibility amounts would be difficult, if not impossible, for us and others to meet with corporate resources, and would be extremely expensive, if not impossible, to finance with third-party financial instruments such as letters of credit, bonds or insurance. in december 2017, epa withdrew its proposed rules and in february 2018, epa published its final decision that additional financial assurance regulations for the hard rock mining industry would not be needed given the existing state and federal regulatory programs that became effective in march 2018. in may 2018, environmental organizations filed a petition for review with the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia. we and others in the mining industry intervened in the case. if the court remands the rule back to epa for reconsideration, a re-proposal of rules similar in nature to epa's 2017 proposed rules would severely harm the international competitiveness of the u.s. hard rock mining industry and would materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are also subject to financial assurance requirements in connection with our remaining oil and gas properties under both state and federal laws, including financial responsibility required under the oil pollution act of 1990 to cover containment and cleanup costs resulting from an oil spill. in 2016, the u.s. bureau of ocean energy management (boem) issued revised requirements for lessees operating in federal waters to secure the cost of plugging, abandoning, decommissioning and/or removing wells, platforms and pipelines at the end of production. the revised requirements eliminate previously provided waivers from requirements to post security. in early 2017, the boem announced a delay in the implementation of certain aspects of the rules pending further review and in june 2017, boem further extended the start date for implementation indefinitely. this extension currently remains in effect. if implemented, the new requirements could require us to post security in the form of bonds or similar assurances. the cost for bonds or other forms of assurances can be substantial, and there is no assurance that they can be obtained in all cases. as of december 31, 2018 , our financial assurance obligations totaled $1.2 billion for closure and reclamation/restoration costs of u.s. mining sites, and $0.5 billion for plugging and abandonment obligations of our remaining oil and gas properties. a substantial portion of our financial assurance obligations are satisfied by fcx and subsidiary guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. our ability to continue to provide guarantees and financial capability demonstrations depends on state and other regulatory requirements, our financial performance and our financial condition. other forms of assurance, such as letters of credit and surety bonds, are costly to provide and, depending on our financial condition and market conditions, may be difficult or impossible to obtain. failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of the affected properties. refer to notes 1 and 12 , for further discussion of our environmental and asset retirement obligations. unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation or with respect to other contingencies could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in numerous legal proceedings and subject to other contingencies that have arisen or may arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues, including those described in note 12 and in item 3. legal proceedings involving matters such as remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, claims of personal injury or property damage arising from such contamination or from exposure to substances such as lead, arsenic, asbestos, talc and other allegedly toxic substances, disputes over water rights, and disputes with foreign governments or regulatory authorities over royalties, taxes, rights and obligations under concession or other agreements, or other matters. we are also involved periodically in other reviews, inquiries, investigations and other proceedings initiated by or involving government agencies, some of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition, from time to time we are involved in disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties, other sanctions or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. management does not believe, based on currently available information, that the outcome of any individual legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, although individual or cumulative outcomes could be material to our operating 38 table of contents results for a particular period, depending on the nature and magnitude of the outcome and the operating results for the period. with respect to the asbestos and talc exposure cases described in note 12 , there has been a recent significant increase in the number of cases alleging the presence of asbestos contamination in talc-based personal care products and in cases alleging exposure to talc products that are not alleged to be contaminated with asbestos. in these cases, plaintiffs allege serious health risks and often fatal diseases, including mesothelioma and ovarian cancer, allegedly caused by long-term use of talc-based cosmetic and personal care products. nationwide trial results in these cases have ranged from outright dismissals to very large jury awards of both compensatory and punitive damages. the primary targets have been the producers of those products, but defendants in many of these cases also include talc miners. cyprus amax minerals company (camc), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of fcx is one of those targets. one of camc's wholly owned subsidiaries, cyprus mines corporation, was involved in talc mining until 1992 when it exited that business. camc has contractual indemnification rights, subject to limited reservations, against the ultimate successor to the business, which has acknowledged those indemnification obligations and has taken responsibility for all cases tendered to it to date. however, on february 13, 2019, the indemnitor filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, and camc is in the very early stages of evaluating the potential implications of that filing. we may be adversely impacted by increased liabilities and costs related to our defined benefit pension plans. we sponsor two defined benefit pension plans for certain current and former employee in the u.s. and a few pension plans for non-u.s. locations which provide for specified payments after retirement. the major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in regulatory requirements or the market value of plan assets, investment returns, interest rates and mortality rates may affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost, future funding requirements of the plans and the funded status as recorded on the balance sheet. a sustained period of low or insufficient returns could require us to fund our pension plans to a greater extent than anticipated. refer to note 9 for further discussion. international risks our international operations are subject to political, economic, social and regional risks of doing business in countries outside the u.s. we are a u.s.-based mining company with substantial assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru and chile and exploration activities in various foreign jurisdictions. accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in countries outside the u.s., our business may be adversely affected by political, economic, social and regional uncertainties in each of these countries. risks of conducting business in countries outside the u.s. include: delays in obtaining or renewing, or the inability to obtain, maintain or renew, or the renegotiation, cancellation, revocation or forced modification of existing contracts, leases, licenses, permits or other agreements and/or approvals; expropriation or nationalization of property, protectionism, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital, or other currency controls; changes in the host country's laws, regulations and policies, including, but not limited to, those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, duties, tariffs, divestment, imports, exports (including restrictions on the export of copper concentrates, copper and/or gold), trade regulations, currency and environmental matters (including land use and water use), which because of rising resource nationalism in countries around the world, may impose increasingly onerous requirements on foreign operations and investment; political instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil unrest, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; changes in the aspirations and expectations of local communities in which we operate with respect to our contributions to employee health and safety, infrastructure and community development and other factors that may affect our social license to operate, all of which lead to increased costs; 39 table of contents risk of loss associated with trespass, local artisanal or illegal mining, theft and vandalism; changes in u.s. trade, tax, immigration or other policies that may harm relations with foreign countries or result in retaliatory policies, including the u.s.-china trade war that began in 2018 which, if prolonged, could have a significant adverse effect on global trade and the global economy; increases in training and other costs and challenges relating to requirements by governmental entities to employ the nationals of the country in which a particular operation is located; foreign exchange controls, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and inflation; and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of an international court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation within its own territory. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. may be substantially affected by many unpredictable factors beyond our control, some of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. our international operations must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we operate. there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws in recent years. we operate in certain jurisdictions that have experienced governmental and private sector corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and heightened expectations of enforcement authorities may be in tension with certain local customs and practices. there can be no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from misinterpretation of or noncompliance with applicable laws and internal policies, recklessness, fraudulent behavior, dishonesty or other inappropriate acts committed by our affiliates, employees, agents or contractors. as such, our corporate policies and processes may not prevent or detect all potential breaches of law or other governance practices. any violation of those laws could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax disputes with indonesian and peruvian tax authorities (refer to note 12 for further discussion of these matters). other risks specific to certain countries in which we operate are discussed in more detail below. because our mining operation in indonesia is a significant operating asset, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia. our indonesia mining operations include the grasberg minerals district, one of the world's largest copper and gold deposits. these operations are conducted by our subsidiary pt-fi pursuant to a special mining license (iupk) issued by the indonesian government on december 21, 2018, which replaced pt-fi's former contract of work (cow) entered into in december 1991. under the terms of the iupk, pt-fi has been granted an extension of mining rights through 2031, with rights to extend its mining rights through 2041, subject to, among other things, pt-fi completing the construction of a new smelter in indonesia by december 21, 2023, and fulfilling its defined fiscal obligations to the indonesian government. refer to note 13 for a summary of the iupk's key fiscal terms. pt-fi has applied for a one-year extension of its export license, which currently expires on february 16, 2019. export licenses are valid for one year periods, subject to review and approval by the indonesian government every six months, depending on smelter construction progress. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesian government is important because of the significance of our indonesia operations to our business, and because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesian government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. partially because of its significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area where it is located, and the number of people employed, our indonesia operations have been the subject of political debates and of criticism in the indonesian press, and have been the target of 40 table of contents protests and occasional violence. improper management of our working relationship with the indonesian government could lead to a disruption of operations and/or impact our reputation in indonesia and in the region where we operation, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, pt indonesia asahan aluminium (persero) (pt inalum), a shareholder in pt-fi, is an indonesian state-owned enterprise. disputes between us and pt inalum may result in litigation or arbitration, which could increase our expenses and distract our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. the indonesian mining industry is subject to extensive regulation within indonesia, and there have been major developments in laws and regulations applicable to mining concession holders, some of which have conflicted with pt-fi's contractual rights in the past. in particular, the enactment of law no. 4 of 2009 on coal and mineral mining on january 12, 2009 (the mining law) replaced the previous regulatory framework which allowed concession holders, including pt-fi, to conduct mining activities in indonesia under a contract of work system. the mining law, which sets out the regulatory framework for the mining industry in indonesia, only contains substantive principles and leaves many specific issues to be addressed in implementing regulations, some of which have conflicted with pt-fi's contractual rights in the past, including, but not limited to, regulations that imposed a progressive export duty on copper concentrate, restricted exports of copper concentrate and anode slimes, increased royalty rates, and required payment of a smelter assurance bond to support a commitment to construct a new smelter in indonesia (refer to note 13 for further discussion of the smelter assurance bond). in january 2017, pt-fi suspended exports through april 2017 in response to these mining law regulations. the mining law stipulated that previously granted mining rights (through a contract of work) would continue to be valid until expiry, subject to certain adjustments. pt-fi's former cow was concluded pursuant to the 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provided basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. the initial term of pt-fi's former cow was scheduled to expire in 2021 and explicitly provided that it could be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesian government approval, which could not be withheld or delayed unreasonably. prior to the issuance of the iupk to pt-fi in december 2018, pt-fi had been engaged in discussions with the indonesian government since 2012 regarding various provisions of its former cow, including extending its term. notwithstanding provisions in pt-fi's former cow prohibiting it from doing so, the indonesian government sought to modify pt-fi's former cow to address provisions contained in the mining law and implementing regulations adopted thereunder, some of which were not required under or conflicted with pt-fi's former cow, including, but not limited to (i) restrictions on pt-fi's basic right to export mining products; (ii) imposition of additional export duties; (iii) imposition of excess surface water taxes (refer to note 12 ); (iv) imposition of new requirement to build additional smelter capacity in indonesia; (v) unreasonable withholding and delay in granting approval of two successive ten-year extensions of the term of the former cow; and (vi) imposition of new divestment requirements. we cannot assure you that future regulatory changes affecting the mining industry in indonesia will not be introduced or unexpectedly repealed, or that new interpretations of existing laws and regulations will not be issued, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in 2019, indonesia will hold national legislative elections. the presidential election will be held in april 2019, with a run-off in august 2019, if required. political considerations leading up to these elections could affect the country's policies pertaining to foreign investment, which could adversely affect our indonesia mining operations. we will not mine all of pt-fi's ore reserves in the grasberg minerals district before the initial term of pt-fi's iupk expires in 2031 and the iupk may not be extended through 2041 if pt-fi fails to abide by the terms and conditions of the iupk and applicable laws and regulations. as discussed in the above risk factor, because our mining operation in indonesia is a significant operating asset, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia , on december 21, 2018, pt-fi was granted a new iupk to replace its former cow, enabling pt-fi to conduct operations in the grasberg minerals district through 2041. under the terms of the iupk, pt-fi has been granted mining rights through 2031, with rights to extend its mining rights through 2041, subject to, among other things, pt-fi completing the construction of a new smelter in indonesia by december 21, 2023, and fulfilling its defined fiscal obligations to the indonesian government. refer to note 13 for a summary of the iupk's key fiscal terms. 41 table of contents the iupk also requires pt-fi to pay duties on concentrate exports of 5 percent, declining to 2.5 percent when smelter development progress exceeds 30 percent, and eliminated when smelter development progress exceeds 50 percent. smelter development progress will be determined by an independent verifier appointed by the ministry of energy and mineral resources (memr) and subject to approval by the memr. pt-fi is initiating front-end engineering and design and intends to pursue financing, commercial and potential partner arrangements for this project, which has a preliminary estimated capital cost in the $3 billion range. the economics of the new smelter will be borne by pt-fi's shareholders according to their respective long-term share ownership percentages. pt-fi's ability to raise and service significant new sources of capital will be a function of macroeconomic conditions, future market prices as well as pt-fi's operational performance, cash flow and debt position, among other factors. financing may not be available when needed or, if available, the terms of such financing may not be favorable to pt-fi. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and pt-fi's current long-term mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that pt-fi will abide by the terms and conditions of the iupk and will be granted the 10-year extension from 2031 through 2041. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the iupk. prior to the end of 2031, we expect to mine 53 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2018, representing 57 percent of our net equity share of recoverable copper reserves and 64 percent of our net equity share of recoverable gold reserves. if pt-fi does not complete the construction of a new smelter in indonesia by december 21, 2023, or fulfill its defined fiscal obligations to the indonesian government as set forth in the iupk, the iupk will likely not be extended from 2031 to 2041, and we would be unable to mine all of pt-fi's ore reserves in the grasberg minerals district, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. operational risks our mining operations are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business and our underground mining operations can be particularly dangerous. our mines are very large in scale and, by their nature are subject to significant operational risks, some of which are outside of our control, and many of which are not covered fully, or in some cases even partially, by insurance. these operational risks, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flow, include earthquakes, rainstorms, floods, and other natural disasters; equipment failures; accidents; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses of our underground mines or tailings impoundments; and lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates. since late january 2019, our el abra operation in chile has experienced heavy rainfall and electrical storms, resulting in a suspension of operations since february 4, 2019. we have been unable to assess damages because of poor road conditions and inaccessible areas and we do not currently know when normal operations will resume. we estimate the impact on 2019 production will approximate 8 million pounds of copper through mid-february 2019, and additional impacts of approximately 600 thousand pounds of copper per day are expected until normal operations resume. underground mining operations can be particularly dangerous, and in may 2013, a tragic accident, which resulted in 28 fatalities and 10 injuries, occurred at pt-fi when the rock structure above the ceiling of an underground training facility collapsed. pt-fi temporarily suspended mining and processing activities at the grasberg complex to conduct inspections and resumed open-pit mining and concentrating activities in june 2013, and underground operations in july 2013. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia mining operations involve additional risks given that such operations are located in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. these conditions have required us to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. the area also receives considerable rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. further, the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. our insurance may not sufficiently cover an unexpected natural or operating disaster. the waste rock (including overburden) and tailings produced in our mining operations represent our largest volume of waste material. managing the volume of waste rock and tailings presents significant environmental, safety and 42 table of contents engineering challenges and risks primarily relating to structural stability, geochemistry, water quality and dust generation. management of this waste is regulated in the jurisdictions where we operate and our programs are designed to be in compliance with applicable national, state and local laws, permits and approved environmental impact studies. we maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are effectively large dams that must be engineered, constructed and monitored to ensure structural stability and avoid leakages or structural collapse. our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions, and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage at all of our operations. in indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks, as discussed below. we currently operate 19 tailings storage facilities and manage 55 that are inactive or have been reclaimed (approximately two-thirds of these have been reclaimed). the failure of tailings and other impoundments at any of our mining operations could cause severe, and in some cases catastrophic, property and environmental damage and loss of life, and we apply significant financial resources and both internal and external technical resources to the safe management of all those facilities. the importance of careful design, management and monitoring of large impoundments has been emphasized in recent years, including as recently as january 2019, by large scale tailings dam failures at unaffiliated mines, which resulted in numerous fatalities and caused extensive property and environmental damage. our tailings management and stewardship program, which involves qualified external engineers of record and periodic oversight by independent external tailings review boards at numerous operations, complies with the tailings governance framework on preventing catastrophic failure of tailings storage facilities adopted in december 2016 by the international council on mining and metals (icmm) and required to be implemented by icmm members. we continue to enhance our existing practices and work with icmm members on additional initiatives to strengthen critical controls for the design, operation and closure of tailings storage facilities in an effort to reduce the risk of severe or catastrophic failure of tailings storage facilities but no assurance can be given that these events will not occur in the future. labor unrest, violence, activism and civil and religious strife could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 37 percent of our global labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 21 percent of our global labor force was covered by agreements that have expired and are currently being negotiated or will expire during 2019. labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. refer to items 1. and 2., business and properties, for additional information regarding labor matters, and expiration dates of such agreements. we could also experience labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, or lockouts that could adversely affect our operations. for example, during third-quarter 2016, pt-fi experienced labor productivity issues and a 10-day work stoppage that began in late september 2016. these labor productivity issues continued during fourth-quarter 2016 and the first half of 2017. beginning in mid-april 2017, pt-fi experienced a high level of worker absenteeism, which unfavorably impacted mining and milling rates. a significant number of employees and contractors elected to participate in an illegal strike action beginning in may 2017, and were subsequently deemed to have voluntarily resigned under existing indonesian laws and regulations resulting in increased costs associated with employee severance. we cannot predict whether additional labor disruptions will occur. significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations could significantly reduce our production and sales volumes or disrupt operations, which could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. indonesia has long faced separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. several separatist groups have sought increased political independence for the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesian military and police. in addition, illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted for years to move them away from our facilities. social, 43 table of contents economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our indonesia operations. in 2009, a series of shooting incidents occurred within the pt-fi project area, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations. the shooting incidents continued on a sporadic basis through january 2015. during this time, there were 20 fatalities and more than 50 injuries to our employees, contractor employees, government security personnel and civilians. the next shooting incident occurred in august 2017, and a series of shooting incidents continued on a sporadic basis within the pt-fi project area and in nearby areas through august 2018, resulting in two fatalities and 25 injuries. in december 2018, a mass shooting incident targeting a highway construction crew occurred in a remote mountain area approximately 100 miles east of the pt-fi project area, resulting in at least 19 fatalities and several reported as missing. pt-fi continues to monitor the situation in the region. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt-fi continues to work with the indonesian government to address security issues within the pt-fi project area and in nearby areas. we continue to limit the use of the road leading to our mining and milling operations to secured convoys, including transport of personnel by armored vehicles in designated areas. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our operations. if other disruptive incidents occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict at this time. our mining operations depend on the availability of significant quantities of secure water supplies. our mining operations require physical availability and secure legal rights to significant quantities of water for mining and ore processing activities, and related support facilities. most of our north america and south america mining operations are in areas where competition for water supplies is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on many factors, including our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. as discussed in item 3 legal proceedings , in arizona, where our operations use both surface and groundwater, we are a participant in an active general stream adjudication in which arizona courts have been attempting, for over 40 years, to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for the gila river, one of the state's largest river systems. this stream adjudication primarily affects our morenci, safford and sierrita mines. the adjudication is addressing the state law claims of thousands of competing users, including us, as well as significant federal water claims that are potentially adverse to the state law claims of both surface water and groundwater users. groundwater is treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which historically allowed landowners to pump subsurface water, subject only to the requirement of putting it to reasonable use. however, court decisions in the adjudication have concluded that some underground water constitutes subflow that is to be treated legally as surface water and is therefore subject to the arizona doctrine of prior appropriation and subject to the adjudication and potentially unavailable to groundwater pumpers in the absence of valid surface water claims. any re-characterization of groundwater as surface water could affect the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a user of both groundwater and surface water in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings. given the legal and technical complexity of these adjudications, their long history, and their long-term legal, economic and political implications, it is difficult to predict the timing or the outcome of these proceedings. if we are not able to satisfactorily resolve the issues being addressed in the adjudications, our ability to pump groundwater could be diminished or curtailed, and our operations at morenci, safford and sierrita could be adversely affected unless we are able to acquire alternative resources. water for our cerro verde operation in peru comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collects water primarily from seasonal precipitation. as a result of occasional drought conditions, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our cerro verde operations. water for our el abra mining operation in chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. the agreement to pump from this aquifer is subject to continued monitoring of the aquifer level to ensure that environmentally 44 table of contents sensitive areas are not impacted by our pumping. if impact occurs, we would have to reduce pumping to restore water levels, which could have an adverse effect on production from el abra. although we typically have sufficient water for our indonesian operations (the area receives considerable rainfall that has led to periodic floods and mudslides), lower rainfall could affect our water supply availability from time to time. although each of our mining operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, as discussed above some supplies are subject to adjudication proceedings, the outcome of which we cannot predict, and the availability of additional supplies that may be required for potential future expansions is uncertain. while we are taking actions to acquire additional back-up water supplies, such supplies may not be available at acceptable cost, or at all, so that the loss of a water right or currently available water supply could force us to curtail operations or force premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. the development of our underground mines and operations are also subject to other unique risks. mine development projects typically require a number of years and significant expenditures during the development phase before production is possible. currently, our major mining projects include underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district, which currently constitutes approximately 30 percent of our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper reserves, and development of the lone star oxide project in arizona. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects including, but not limited to, unexpected or difficult geological formations or conditions, potential delays, cost overruns, lower levels of production during ramp-up periods, shortages of material or labor, construction defects, breakdowns and injuries to persons and property. the development of our underground mines and operations are also subject to other unique risks including, but not limited to, underground fires or floods, ventilating harmful gases, fall-of-ground accidents, and seismic activity resulting from unexpected or difficult geological formations or conditions. while we anticipate taking all measures that we deem reasonable and prudent in connection with the development of our underground mines to safely manage production, there is no assurance that these risks will not cause schedule delays, revised mine plans, injuries to persons and property, or increased capital costs, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. additionally, although we devote significant time and resources to our project planning, approval and review processes, many of our development projects are highly complex and rely on factors that are outside of our control, which may cause us to underestimate the time and capital required to complete a development project. for example, in september 2015, we initiated pre-commercial production at the deep mill level zone (dmlz) underground mine in the grasberg minerals district. during second-quarter 2018, pt-fi revised its mine plans to incorporate a slower ramp-up of the dmlz underground mine following the continuing occurrence of mining induced seismic activity experienced in 2017 and 2018. pt-fi commenced hydraulic fracturing activities during third-quarter 2018 to manage rock stresses and pre-condition the dmlz underground mine for large-scale production. although results to date have been effective in managing rock stresses, we cannot predict whether additional occurrences of seismic activity or other unexpected geological activity will occur that could cause schedule delays or additional revisions to pt-fi's mine plans, which could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. pt-fi currently expects the dmlz to reach full production rates of 80,000 metric tons per day in 2022; however, estimates of timing of future production continue to be reviewed and may be modified as additional information becomes available. our decision to develop a project is typically based on the results of feasibility studies, which estimate the anticipated economic returns of a project. in addition, the economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, estimated capital and operating costs, and estimated future prices of the relevant commodity. consolidated capital expenditures are expected to approximate $2.4 billion for the year 2019, including $1.5 billion for major mining projects primarily associated with underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district and development of the lone star oxide project. new development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. the actual costs, production rates and economic returns of our development projects may differ materially from our estimates, which may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 45 table of contents we must continually replace reserves depleted by production but exploration is highly speculative and our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our existing mineral reserves will be depleted over time by production from our operations. because our profits are primarily derived from our mining operations, our ability to replenish our mineral reserves is essential to our long-term success. depleted reserves can be replaced in several ways, including expanding known ore bodies, by locating new deposits or acquiring interests in reserves from third parties. exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and uncertainties, requires substantial capital expenditures, and is frequently unsuccessful in discovering significant mineralization. accordingly, our current or future exploration programs may not result in the discovery of additional deposits that can be produced profitably. even if significant mineralization is discovered, it will likely take many years from the initial phases of exploration until commencement of production, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. we may not be able to discover, enhance, develop or acquire reserves in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow our current reserve levels, which could negatively affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. estimates of proven and probable reserves and mineralized material are uncertain and the volume and grade of ore actually recovered may vary from our estimates. estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves have been calculated in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange act of 1934. there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating mineral reserves. such estimates are, to a large extent, based on the average prices for the commodities we produce, primarily copper, gold and molybdenum, and interpretations of geologic data obtained from drill holes and other exploration techniques, which data may not necessarily be indicative of future results. our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. geological assumptions about our mineralization that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available. estimates of proven and probable reserves that will be recovered, or the cost at which we anticipate reserves will be recovered, are based on uncertain assumptions. the uncertain global financial outlook may affect economic assumptions related to reserve recovery and may require reserve revisions. changes to reserve estimates could affect our asset carrying values and may also negatively impact our future financial condition and results. in addition, if the market prices for the commodities we produce decline from recent levels, if production costs increase or recovery rates decrease, or if applicable laws and regulations are adversely changed, we can offer no assurance that the indicated level of recovery will be realized or that mineral reserves can be mined or processed profitably. if we determine that certain of our estimated proven and probable reserves have become uneconomic, this may ultimately lead to a reduction in our aggregate reported reserves which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, the term mineralized material does not indicate proven and probable reserves as defined by the u.s. securities and exchange commission. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors and are, therefore, subject to considerable uncertainty. accordingly, no assurance can be given that the estimated mineralized material not included in reserves will become proven and probable reserves. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations, some of which require permits and other approvals. these regulations increase our costs and in some circumstances may delay or suspend our operations. our operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that are subject to change and to changing interpretation by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with broad supervisory authority. as a mining company, compliance with environmental legal requirements is an integral and costly part of our business. for additional information, see environmental risks below. we are also subject to extensive regulation of worker health and safety, including the requirements of the u.s. occupational safety and health act and similar laws of 46 table of contents other jurisdictions. in the u.s., the operation of our mines is subject to regulation by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977 (mine act). msha inspects our mines on a regular basis and issues citations and orders when it believes a violation has occurred under the mine act. additionally in the u.s. various state agencies have concurrent jurisdiction arising under state law that regulate worker health and safety in both our industrial facilities and mines. if regulatory inspections result in an alleged violation, we may be subject to fines and penalties and, in instances of alleged significant violations, our mining operations or industrial facilities could be subject to temporary or extended closures. refer to exhibit 95 to this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding certain orders and citations issued by msha for our operations during the year ended december 31, 2018. many other governmental bodies regulate other aspects of our operations, and our failure to comply with these legal requirements can result in substantial penalties. in addition, new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations by courts or regulatory authorities occur regularly, but are difficult to predict. any such variations could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. our business is dependent upon information technology systems, which may be adversely affected by disruptions, damage, failure and risks associated with implementation and integration. our strategy of operating large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets has been increasingly dependent on our ability to become fully integrated and highly automated. many of our business and operational processes are heavily dependent on traditional and emerging technology systems to conduct day-to-day operations, improve safety and efficiency, and lower costs. as our dependence on information systems, including those of our third party service providers and vendors, grows, we become more vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency and magnitude. these incidents may include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, phishing, credential attacks, unauthorized access to data and other advanced and sophisticated cybersecurity breaches and threats, including threats that increasingly target critical operational technologies and process control networks. if any of these threats materialize, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks, production downtimes, communication interruption or other disruptions and delays to our operations or to the transportation of products or infrastructure utilized by our operations, unauthorized release of proprietary, commercially sensitive, confidential or otherwise protected information, the corruption of data, significant health and safety consequences, environmental damage, loss of intellectual property, fines and litigation, damage to our reputation or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. we have experienced targeted and non-targeted cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. while these cybersecurity incidents did not result in any material loss to us or interrupt our day-to-day operations, there can be no assurance that we will not experience any such losses in the future. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks. however, given the unpredictability of the timing and the evolving nature and scope of information technology disruptions, the various procedures and controls we use to monitor and protect against these threats and to mitigate our potential risks to such threats may not be sufficient in preventing cybersecurity incidents from materializing. further, as cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities to cybersecurity threats. we could also be adversely affected by system or network disruptions if new or upgraded information technology systems are defective, not installed properly or not properly integrated into our operations. various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to the system implementation and modification, but system modification failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could, if not successfully implemented, adversely impact the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. 47 table of contents environmental risks our operations are subject to complex, evolving and increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations. compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain existing operations or expansion opportunities. our operations, both in the u.s. and internationally, are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations governing the generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances; solid waste disposal; air emissions; wastewater discharges; remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, including mine closures and reclamation; well plug and abandonment requirements; protection of endangered and protected species and designation of critical habitats; and other related matters. in addition, we must obtain regulatory permits and approvals to start, continue and expand operations. our miami, arizona, smelter processes approximately half of the aggregate copper concentrate produced by our north america copper mines. epa regulations required us to invest approximately $230 million in new pollution control equipment to reduce sulfur dioxide (so 2 ) to meet both regional haze requirements and to allow the arizona department of environmental quality (adeq) to demonstrate compliance with epa's so 2 ambient air quality standards. the new so 2 pollution control equipment was operational as of the january 1, 2018, deadline imposed by epa and the miami smelter has been in compliance with both the regional haze requirements and the adeq rules. adeq also has two so 2 monitors in the miami area that continually read ambient so 2 levels, and during 2018, there were several instances in which adeq's monitors read so 2 levels that exceeded the specified level. we are engaged in discussions with adeq and conducting an ongoing investigation of the cause of the ambient levels. we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to modify our system or install additional equipment to address findings or reflect new requirements or for other reasons, which could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. laws such as cercla and similar state laws may expose us to joint and several liability for environmental damages caused by our operations, or by previous owners or operators of properties we acquired or are currently operating or at sites where we sent materials for processing, recycling or disposal. as discussed in more detail in the next risk factor, we have substantial obligations for environmental remediation on mining properties previously owned or operated by freeport minerals corporation (fmc) and certain of its affiliates. noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in material penalties or other liabilities. in addition, compliance with these laws may from time to time result in delays in or changes to our development or expansion plans. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. new or revised environmental regulatory requirements are frequently proposed, many of which result in substantially increased costs for our business, including those regarding financial assurance in the financial risk factor above. in 2015, epa adopted rules that added remote tributaries into the regulatory definition of waters of the united states that are protected by the clean water act, thereby imposing significant additional restrictions on land uses in remote areas with only tenuous connections to active waterways. these rules were challenged by multiple states and industry parties and litigation is ongoing. epa has moved forward to rescind these rules and reconsider the definition of waters of the united states to clarify the scope of waters federally regulated under the clean water act. a pre-publication version of a proposed revised definition of waters of the united states was issued by epa and the u.s. army corps of engineers in december 2018. if adopted in final form as proposed, federal permitting requirements under the clean water act could be less stringent which would limit or eliminate our need to obtain federal permits for future expansions at our operations in arizona and new mexico. however, there can be no assurance that the proposed revised definition will be adopted as proposed or that it will not be challenged by environmental groups. regulations have been considered at various governmental levels to increase federal financial responsibility requirements both for mine closure and reclamation and for oil and gas decommissioning. in january 2019, legislative bills were introduced in both colorado and new mexico that would eliminate self-bonding and parent company guarantees for financial assurance for mine closure and reclamation activities. we are working to retain flexibility in financial assurance forms at our operations, but if enacted as proposed, we would be precluded from using parent company guarantees for any financial assurance obligations associated with our colorado and new mexico operations, which would result in increased costs. the legislative bill introduced in colorado would also 48 table of contents require proof of an end date for water treatment as a condition of permit issuance authorizing mining operations. also in january 2019, legislation was proposed in new mexico that would require water quality standards to be applied at the point of discharge to groundwater. adoption of these or similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs, threaten certain operating activities and constrain our expansion opportunities. our mining operations are subject to regulations under the endangered species act (esa) that are intended to protect species listed by the department of interior's fish &amp; wildlife service (fws) as endangered or threatened, along with critical habitat designated by fws for these listed species. the regulations limit the ability of landowners, including us, to obtain federal permits or authorizations needed for expansion of our operations, and may also affect our ability to obtain, retain or deliver water to some operations. these regulations were revised in 2016 to expand the ability of fws to designate critical habitat in areas that are not occupied by a listed species. as part of its plan to modernize the implementation of the esa, the fws issued proposed rules in july 2018 that, if finalized, could mitigate, but not eliminate, potential regulatory constraints on mining operations under the esa, and change some aspects of the revised regulations adopted in 2016. fws is also evaluating whether certain species should still be listed under the esa, and reconsidering critical habitat that was proposed but never finalized. environmental groups have aggressively challenged fws's regulatory reforms. no assurances can be made that restrictions relating to conservation will not have an adverse impact on expansion of our operations or not result in delays in project development, constraints on exploration and constraints on operations in impacted areas. we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations totaling $0.4 billion in 2018, $0.5 billion in 2017 and $0.4 billion in 2016. for 2019 , we expect to incur approximately $0.5 billion of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation and plug and abandonment activities, the settlement of environmental matters and the rate at which actual spending occurs on continuing matters. we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. fmc and its subsidiaries, and many of their affiliates and predecessor companies, have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies fully understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for remediating hazardous substances released into the environment from properties owned or operated by them as well as properties where they arranged for disposal of such substances, irrespective of when the release to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often asserted on a joint and several basis with other prior and subsequent owners, operators and arrangers, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is, and each arranger may be, held fully responsible for the remediation, although in many cases some or all of the other responsible parties no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are potentially responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2018 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects in 26 u.s. states. in addition, fmc and certain affiliates and predecessor companies were parties to agreements relating to the transfer of businesses or properties that contained indemnification provisions relating to environmental matters, and from time to time these provisions become the source of claims against us. at december 31, 2018 , we had $1.5 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributable to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of operating facilities. 49 table of contents our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases occurred many decades ago; our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. in addition, remediation standards imposed by epa and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time and may become even more stringent in the future. imposition of more stringent remediation standards, particularly for arsenic and lead in soils, poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at our active remediation sites and at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. epa is considering how to reduce lead exposure in the environment under multiple environmental programs. certain federal and state health agencies also support lower lead cleanup levels. the timing for these epa activities is unclear, but any reduction in lead cleanup levels could result in material increases to our environmental reserves for ongoing residential property cleanup projects near former smelter sites. refer to note 12 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesian government, uses the unnavigable river system in the highlands near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. in addition, certain overburden stockpiles are subject to erosion caused by the large amounts of rainfall, with the eroded stockpile material eventually being deposited in the lowlands tailings management area; this additional material influences the deposition of finer sediment material in the estuary, as well as presents the potential for increased environmental impacts. the grasberg overburden stockpiles have experienced significant erosion , exacerbated by unanticipated work stoppages that adversely affected our ability to manage certain overburden stockpiles. the current tailings deposition management plan as well as environmental monitoring programs take into account the presence of this overburden in the lowlands tailings management area. in the past, certain indonesian government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than the river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially 50 table of contents adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. in october 2017, indonesia's ministry of environment and forestry (the moef) notified pt-fi of administrative sanctions related to certain activities that it indicated are not reflected in pt-fi's environmental permit. the moef also notified pt-fi that certain operational activities were inconsistent with factors set forth in pt-fi's environmental permitting studies and that additional monitoring and improvements need to be undertaken related to air quality, water drainage, treatment and handling of certain wastes, and tailings management. in april 2018, the moef issued decrees imposing unattainable environmental standards related to pt-fi's controlled riverine tailings management system. the decrees included a six-month transition period and conflicted with pt-fi's approved environmental management programs and existing environmental permits. in december 2018, the moef issued a revised environmental permit to pt-fi to address many of the operational activities that it alleged were inconsistent with earlier studies. the remaining administrative sanctions are being resolved through adoption of revised practices and, in a few situations, pt-fi has agreed with the moef on an appropriate multi-year work plan, including the closure of an overburden stockpile. pt-fi and the moef also established a new framework for continuous improvement in environmental practices in pt-fi's operations, including initiatives that pt-fi will pursue to increase tailings retention and to evaluate large-scale beneficial uses of tailings within indonesia. the moef issued a new decree that incorporates various initiatives and studies to be completed by pt-fi during 2019 targeting continuous improvement in a manner that would not impose new technical risks or significant long-term costs to pt-fi's operations. the new framework enables pt-fi to maintain compliance with site-specific standards and provides for ongoing monitoring by the moef. refer to note 12 for further discussion. we cannot assure you that future environmental changes affecting the mining industry in indonesia will not be introduced or unexpectedly altered or repealed, or that new interpretations of existing environmental laws and regulations will not be issued, which might have a significant impact on pt-fi. our copper mining operations require significant energy and regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented approximately 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2018 , and are expected to approximate 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2019. carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, although haul truck diesel use and the amount of purchased power that is derived from fossil fuel or renewable sources varies significantly depending on site production and country-specific circumstances. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. as a result of the paris agreement reached during the 21 st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in 2015, a number of governments have pledged nationally determined contributions to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in the u.s., several states, including colorado and new mexico, have advanced goals reducing or eliminating fossil-fuel based energy production. transitions to renewable and other energy sources could, among other things, increase our operating and energy costs depending on the scope and magnitude of increased regulation of fossil-fuel based energy production, including greenhouse gas emissions. other risks our holding company structure may impact our ability to service debt and our stockholders ' ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock and intercompany receivables of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. cash at our international operations is also typically subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. 51 table of contents in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us or repay loans to us, to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are parties to credit agreements that restrict their ability to make distributions or loan repayments to us if such subsidiary is in default under such agreements, or to transfer substantially all of the assets of such subsidiary without the consent of the lenders. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize the board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the board. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to our stockholders.risk factors 35 risk factors. copper copper is an internationally traded commodity, and its prices are determined by the major metals exchanges the london metal exchange (lme), new york mercantile exchange (nymex) and shanghai futures exchange. prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide balance of copper supply and demand, and can be volatile and cyclical. during 2019 , the lme copper settlement price averaged $2.72 per pound, ranging from a low of $2.51 per pound to a high of $2.98 per pound, and was $2.79 per pound at december 31, 2019 . in general, demand for copper reflects the rate of underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and construction. according to wood mackenzie, a widely followed independent metals market consultant, copper's end-use markets (and their estimated shares of total consumption) are construction (28 percent), electrical applications (28 percent), consumer products (21 percent), transportation (12 percent) and industrial machinery (11 percent). we believe copper will continue to be essential in these basic uses as well as contribute significantly to new technologies for energy efficiencies, to advance communications and to enhance public health. examples of areas we believe will require additional copper in the future include: (i) high efficiency motors, which consume up to 75 percent more copper than a standard motor; (ii) electric vehicles, which consume up to four times the amount of copper in terms of weight compared to vehicles of similar size with an internal combustion engine, and require copper-intensive charging station infrastructure to refuel; and (iii) renewable energy such as wind and solar, which consume four to five times the amount of copper compared to traditional fossil fuel generated power. 3 table of contents gold gold is used for jewelry, coinage and bullion as well as various industrial and electronic applications. gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world. benchmark prices are generally based on london bullion market association (london) quotations. during 2019 , the london pm gold price averaged $1,393 per ounce, ranging from a low of $1,270 per ounce to a high of $1,546 per ounce, and was $1,515 per ounce on december 30, 2019 (there was no london pm gold price quote on december 31, 2019 ). molybdenum molybdenum is a key alloying element in steel and the raw material for several chemical-grade products used in catalysts, lubrication, smoke suppression, corrosion inhibition and pigmentation. molybdenum, as a high-purity metal, is also used in electronics such as flat-panel displays and in super alloys used in aerospace. reference prices for molybdenum are available in several publications, including metals week, cru report and metal bulletin . during 2019 , the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $11.37 per pound, ranging from a low of $8.55 per pound to a high of $12.66 per pound, and was $9.23 per pound at december 31, 2019 . products and sales our consolidated revenues for 2019 primarily included sales of copper ( 79 percent ), gold ( 11 percent ) and molybdenum ( 8 percent ). copper concentrate sales to pt smelting (pt-fi's 25-percent-owned copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia) totaled 13 percent of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2019 , and 12 percent for both the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, which is the only customer that accounted for 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues during the three years ended december 31, 2019 . refer to note 16 for a summary of our consolidated revenues and operating income (loss) by business segment and geographic area. copper products we are one of the world's leading producers of copper concentrate, cathode and continuous cast copper rod. during 2019 , 56 percent of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, 22 percent as cathode and 22 percent as rod from our north america operations. the copper ore from our mines is generally processed either by smelting and refining or by solution extraction and electrowinning (sx/ew) as described below. copper concentrate . we produce copper concentrate at six of our mines in which mined ore is crushed and treated to produce a copper concentrate with copper content of approximately 20 to 30 percent. in north america, copper concentrate is produced at the morenci, bagdad, sierrita and chino mines, and a significant portion is shipped to our miami smelter in arizona for further processing. copper concentrate is also produced at the cerro verde mine in peru and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. copper cathode . we produce copper cathode at our electrolytic refinery located in el paso, texas, and at nine of our mines. sx/ew cathode is produced from the morenci, bagdad, safford, sierrita, miami, chino and tyrone mines in north america, and from the cerro verde and el abra mines in south america . for ore subject to the sx/ew process, the ore is placed on stockpiles and copper is extracted from the ore by dissolving it with a weak sulphuric acid solution. the copper content of the solution is increased in two additional sx stages, and then the copper-bearing solution undergoes an ew process to produce cathode that is, on average, 99.99 percent copper. our copper cathode is used as the raw material input for copper rod, brass mill products and for other uses. copper cathode is also produced at atlantic copper (our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in spain) and pt smelting. copper concentrate is smelted ( i.e. , subjected to extreme heat) to produce copper anode, which weighs between 800 and 900 pounds and has an average copper content of 99.5 percent. the anode is further treated by electrolytic refining to produce copper cathode, which weighs between 100 and 350 pounds and has an average copper content of 99.99 percent. refer to mining operations - smelting facilities and other mining properties for further discussion of atlantic copper and pt smelting. continuous cast copper rod . we manufacture continuous cast copper rod at our facilities in el paso, texas; norwich, connecticut; and miami, arizona, primarily using copper cathode produced at our north america copper mines. 4 table of contents copper sales north america . the majority of the copper produced at our north america copper mines and refined in our el paso, texas refinery is consumed at our rod plants to produce copper rod which is sold to wire and cable manufacturers. the remainder of our north america copper production is sold in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate under u.s. dollar-denominated annual contracts. cathode and rod contract prices are generally based on the prevailing commodity exchange inc. (comex - a division of nymex) monthly average settlement price for the month of shipment and include a premium. generally, copper cathode is sold to rod, brass or tube fabricators. during 2019 , 23 percent of our north america mines' copper concentrate sales volumes were shipped to atlantic copper for smelting and refining and sold as copper anode and copper cathode. south america . production from our south america mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under u.s. dollar-denominated, annual and multi-year contracts. during 2019 , our south america mines sold approximately 77 percent of their copper production in concentrate and 23 percent as cathode. substantially all of our south america copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average settlement copper prices. revenues from our south america concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties and treatment charges ( i.e., fees paid to smelters that are generally negotiated annually). in addition, because a portion of the metals contained in copper concentrate is unrecoverable from the smelting process, revenues from our south america concentrate sales are also recorded net of allowances for unrecoverable metals, which are a negotiated term of the contracts and vary by customer. indonesia . pt-fi sells its production in the form of copper concentrate, which contains significant quantities of gold and silver, primarily under u.s. dollar-denominated, long-term contracts. pt-fi also sells a small amount of copper concentrate in the spot market. following is a summary of pt-fi's aggregate percentage of concentrate sales to unaffiliated third parties, pt smelting and atlantic copper for the years ended december 31: 2019 2018 2017 third parties 34 % 60 % 54 % pt smelting 64 38 46 atlantic copper 2 2 100 % 100 % 100 % substantially all of pt-fi's concentrate sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average settlement copper prices. revenues from pt-fi's concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties, export duties, treatment charges and allowances for unrecoverable metals. gold products and sales we produce gold almost exclusively from the grasberg minerals district. the gold we produce is primarily sold as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes, which are a product of the smelting and refining process. gold generally is priced at the average london price for a specified month near the month of shipment. revenues from gold sold as a component of our copper concentrate are recorded net of treatment and refining charges, royalties, export duties and allowances for unrecoverable metals. revenues from gold sold in slimes are recorded net of refining charges. molybdenum products and sales we are the world's largest producer of molybdenum and molybdenum-based chemicals. in addition to production from the henderson and climax molybdenum mines, we produce molybdenum concentrate at certain of the north america copper mines and the cerro verde copper mine in peru. the majority of our molybdenum concentrate is processed in our own conversion facilities. our molybdenum sales are primarily priced based on the average published metals week price for the month prior to the month of shipment. 5 labor matters at december 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 27,500 people (12,800 in north america, 6,900 in indonesia, 6,500 in south america and 1,300 in europe and other locations). we also had contractors that employ personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 22,300 at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia, 11,700 in north america, 5,900 at our south america mining operations and 700 in europe and other locations. employees represented by unions at december 31, 2019 , are listed below, with the number of employees represented and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements: location number of unions number of union- represented employees expiration date pt-fi indonesia 2 5,020 september 2019 a cerro verde peru 1 3,421 august 2021 el abra chile 2 788 april 2023 atlantic copper spain 3 484 december 2019 b kokkola - finland 3 187 november 2020 rotterdam the netherlands 1 60 september 2022 kisanfu africa exploration 2 53 n/a c stowmarket - united kingdom 1 44 may 2020 a. the collective labor agreement (cla) between pt-fi and its workers' unions expired in september 2019, but remains valid in accordance with indonesia law until a new agreement is reached. a new agreement is currently under negotiation. b. the cla between atlantic copper and its workers' unions expired in december 2019, but remains active by mutual agreement from both parties in accordance with spanish law. negotiations on a new agreement are set to begin soon. c. the cla between kisanfu and its unions has no expiration date, but can be amended at any time in accordance with an established process. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further information on labor matters. environmental and reclamation matters the cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations is fundamental to and a substantial cost of our business. for information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to item 1a. risk factors and notes 1 and 12 . competition the top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately 43 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. we currently rank fourth among those producers, with approximately five percent of estimated total worldwide mined copper production. our competitive position is based on the size, quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. we have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies, and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. the metals markets are cyclical, and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce, and to manage our costs. 6 table of contents mining operations following are maps and descriptions of our mining operations in north america (including both copper and molybdenum operations), south america and indonesia. north america in the u.s., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, sx/ew facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. certain portions of our bagdad, sierrita, miami, chino, tyrone, henderson and climax operations are located on government-owned land and are operated under a mine plan of operations or other use permit. we hold various federal and state permits or leases on government land for purposes incidental to mine operations. morenci we own a 72 percent undivided interest in morenci, with the remaining 28 percent owned by sumitomo metal mining arizona, inc. (15 percent) and smm morenci, inc. (13 percent). each partner takes in kind its share of morenci's production. morenci is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. morenci is located in greenlee county, arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of safford on u.s. highway 191. the site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur. the morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide. the morenci operation consists of two concentrators capable of milling 132,000 metric tons of ore per day, which produce copper and molybdenum concentrate; a 68,000 metric ton-per-day, crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a low-grade run-of-mine (rom) leaching system; four sx plants; and three ew tank houses that produce copper cathode. total ew tank house capacity is approximately 900 million pounds of copper per year. morenci's available mining fleet consists of one hundred and forty-one 236-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 13 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 57 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 815,000 metric tons of material per day. morenci's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 5 million pounds of molybdenum in 2019 , 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , and 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 12 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 . morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 840 meters above sea level. the morenci operation encompasses approximately 69,500 acres, comprising 51,300 acres of fee lands and 18,200 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate and numerous state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-ways. 7 table of contents the morenci operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility in deming, new mexico. although we believe the morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the morenci operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. bagdad our wholly owned bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in yavapai county in west-central arizona. it is approximately 60 miles west of prescott and 100 miles northwest of phoenix. the property can be reached by arizona highway 96, which ends at the town of bagdad. the closest railroad is at hillside, arizona, 24 miles southeast on arizona highway 96. the open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings. the bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite. the bagdad operation consists of an 81,600 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, a sx/ew plant that will produce approximately 5 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure-leach plant to process molybdenum concentrate. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-seven 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 250,000 metric tons of material per day. bagdad's production totaled 218 million pounds of copper and 13 million pounds of molybdenum in 2019 , 199 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , and 173 million pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 . bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 150 meters above sea level. the bagdad operation encompasses approximately 33,100 acres, comprising 21,900 acres of fee lands and 11,200 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate and numerous state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-ways. bagdad receives electrical power from arizona public service company. we believe the bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations. 8 table of contents safford, including lone star our wholly owned safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in graham county, arizona, 8 miles north of the town of safford and 170 miles east of phoenix. the site is accessible by paved county road off u.s. highway 70. the safford mine includes three copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite. the property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathode. the operation consists of three open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. the crushed ore is delivered to leach pads by a series of overland and portable conveyors. leach solutions feed a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. a sulfur burner plant is also in operation at safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in sx/ew operations. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-five 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 47 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 358,000 metric tons of material per day. safford's copper production totaled 110 million pounds in 2019 , 123 million pounds in 2018 and 150 million pounds in 2017 . through exploration drilling, we have identified a significant resource at our wholly owned lone star copper leach project located near the safford operation in eastern arizona. an initial project to develop the lone star leachable ores commenced in 2018, with first production expected during 2020. initial production from the lone star leachable ores following a ramp-up period is expected to average approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year, with the potential for future expansion options. total capital costs for the initial project, including mine equipment and pre-production stripping, are expected to approximate $850 million and will benefit from the utilization of existing infrastructure at the adjacent safford operation. as of december 31, 2019, approximately $655 million has been incurred for this project, which is on schedule and within budget. the project also advances exposure to a significant sulfide resource. we expect to incorporate positive drilling and ongoing results in our future development plans. safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,783 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 823 meters above sea level. the safford operation encompasses approximately 94,700 acres, comprising 37,200 acres of fee lands and 57,500 acres of unpatented claims held on public mineral estate. the safford operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility. although we believe the safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations as well as the lone star project, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the safford operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 9 table of contents sierrita our wholly owned sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in pima county, arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of tucson and 7 miles west of the town of green valley and interstate highway 19. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. the sierrita operation includes a 100,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate. sierrita also produces copper from a rom oxide-leaching system. cathode copper is plated at the twin buttes ew facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. the sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. the molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. the available mining fleet consists of twenty-two 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 175,000 metric tons of material per day. sierrita's production totaled 160 million pounds of copper and 16 million pounds of molybdenum in 2019 , 152 million pounds of copper and 16 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , and 160 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 . sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 14.5 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,300 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 410 meters above sea level. the sierrita operation, including the adjacent twin buttes site, encompasses approximately 46,700 acres, comprising 38,300 acres of fee lands including split estate lands and 8,400 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate. sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the tucson electric power company. although we believe the sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the sierrita operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 10 table of contents miami our wholly owned miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in gila county, arizona, 90 miles east of phoenix and 6 miles west of the city of globe on u.s. highway 60. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. since about 1915, the miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. the design capacity of the sx/ew plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. miami is no longer mining ore, but currently produces copper through leaching material already placed on stockpiles, which is expected to continue until 2025. miami's copper production totaled 15 million pounds in 2019 , 16 million pounds in 2018 and 19 million pounds in 2017 . miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level and mining advanced the pit bottom to an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. subsequent sloughing of material into the pit has filled it back to an elevation estimated to be 900 meters above sea level. the miami operation encompasses approximately 14,700 acres, comprising 10,400 acres of fee lands and 4,300 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate. miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the salt river project and natural gas through long-term contracts with el paso natural gas as the transporter. we believe the miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations. chino and tyrone chino our wholly owned chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in grant county, new mexico, approximately 15 miles east of the town of silver city off of state highway 180. the mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. chino has been in operation since 1910. 11 table of contents the chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. there is leachable oxide, secondary sulfide and millable primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides. the chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, and a 150 million pound-per-year sx/ew plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by rom leaching. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-five 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 235,000 metric tons of material per day. chino's copper production totaled 175 million pounds in 2019 , 173 million pounds in 2018 and 215 million pounds in 2017 . chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,460 meters above sea level. the chino operation encompasses approximately 117,300 acres, comprising 103,900 acres of fee lands and 13,400 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate. chino receives power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations. tyrone our wholly owned tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. it is located in grant county, new mexico, 10 miles south of silver city, new mexico, along state highway 90. the site is accessible by paved road and by rail. the tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite, with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla. copper processing facilities consist of a sx/ew operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathode per year. the available mining fleet consists of seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by one shovel with a bucket size of 47 cubic meters, which is capable of moving an average of 68,000 metric tons of material per day. tyrone's copper production totaled 48 million pounds in 2019 , 55 million pounds in 2018 and 61 million pounds in 2017 . tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,475 meters above sea level. the tyrone operation encompasses approximately 31,100 acres, comprising 19,700 acres of fee lands and 11,400 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate. tyrone receives electrical power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe the tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. 12 table of contents henderson and climax henderson our wholly owned henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located 42 miles west of denver, colorado, off u.s. highway 40. nearby communities include the towns of empire, georgetown and idaho springs. the henderson mill site is located 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from colorado state highway 9. the henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the continental divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. the tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill. the henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 18 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our fort madison, iowa, processing facility. the available underground mining equipment fleet consists of fourteen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (lhd) units and seven 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles. henderson's molybdenum production totaled 12 million pounds in 2019 , 14 million pounds in 2018 and 12 million pounds in 2017 . the henderson mine is located in a mountainous region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. the main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 16,700 acres, comprising 13,100 acres of fee lands, 3,550 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate and a 50-acre easement with the u.s. forest service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor. henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with encore energy (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. climax our wholly owned climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of leadville, colorado, off colorado state highway 91 at the top of fremont pass. the mine is accessible by paved roads . the climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the climax open-pit mine includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. climax has the capacity to produce approximately 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the available mining fleet consists of eleven 177-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two hydraulic shovels with bucket sizes of 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 90,000 metric tons of material per day. molybdenum production from climax totaled 17 million pounds in 2019 , 21 million pounds in 2018 and 20 million pounds in 2017 . 13 table of contents the climax mine is located in a mountainous region. the highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the climax operation encompasses approximately 15,100 acres of fee lands. climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with encore energy. we believe the climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. south america at our operations in south america, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. the claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements. cerro verde we have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in cerro verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by smm cerro verde netherlands b.v. (21.0 percent), compa ia de minas buenaventura s.a.a. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the lima stock exchange (5.86 percent). cerro verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of arequipa, peru. the site is accessible by paved highway. cerro verde's copper cathode and concentrate production that is not sold locally is transported approximately 70 miles by truck and by rail to the port of matarani for shipment to international markets. the cerro verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper pitch. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. cerro verde's operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 409,500 metric ton-per-day concentrating facility, and sx/ew leaching facilities. leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a 100,000 metric ton-per-day rom leach system. this sx/ew leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. the available fleet consists of forty-five 290-metric ton haul trucks and ninety-three 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by twelve electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 57 cubic meters and two hydraulic shovels with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters. this fleet is capable of moving an average of approximately 1,050,000 metric tons of material per day. cerro verde's production totaled 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 29 million pounds of molybdenum in 2019 , 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 28 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , and 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 27 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 . 14 table of contents cerro verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 2,750 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,553 meters above sea level. the peru general mining law and cerro verde's mining stability agreement grant the surface rights of mining concessions located on government land. government land obtained after 1997 must be leased or purchased. cerro verde has a mining concession covering approximately 182,000 acres, including access to 14,600 acres granted through an easement from the peru national assets office, plus 145 acres of owned property, and 1,151 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area. cerro verde receives electrical power, including hydro-generated power, under long-term contracts with kallpa generaci n sa, electroperu and engie energia peru s.a. water for our cerro verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. we believe the cerro verde operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. el abra we own a 51 percent interest in el abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise corporaci n nacional del cobre de chile (codelco). el abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of calama in chile's el loa province, region ii. the site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. the el abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. the predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. there is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization as chalcocite. the oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. there are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite. the el abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized rom leaching operation. the available fleet consists of twenty-three 242-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 29 to 41 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 216,000 metric tons of material per day. el abra's copper production totaled 180 million pounds in 2019 , 200 million pounds in 2018 and 173 million pounds in 2017 . we continue to evaluate a large-scale expansion at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. el abra's large sulfide resource could potentially support a major mill project similar to facilities constructed at cerro verde. technical and economic studies continue to be advanced to determine the optimal scope and timing for the project. 15 table of contents el abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 4,195 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,385 meters above sea level. el abra controls a total of approximately 180,000 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. in addition, el abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the salar de ascot n aquifer. el abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with engie energia chile s.a. water for our el abra processing operations comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. we believe el abra has sufficient water rights and regulatory approvals to support current operations. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors. indonesia ownership . pt-fi is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the republic of indonesia. on december 21, 2018, we completed the transaction with the indonesia government regarding pt-fi's long-term mining rights and share ownership (refer to note 2 for further discussion). following the transaction, we have a 48.76 percent share ownership in pt-fi and the remaining 51.24 percent share ownership is collectively held by pt indonesia asahan aluminum (persero) (pt inalum), an indonesia state-owned enterprise, and pt indonesia papua metal dan mineral (formerly known as pt indocopper investama), which is expected to be owned by pt inalum and the provincial/regional government in papua, indonesia. the arrangements related to the transaction also provide for us and the other pre-transaction pt-fi shareholders to retain the economics of the revenue and cost sharing arrangements under the former rio tinto joint venture. as a result, our economic interest in pt-fi is expected to approximate 81 percent through 2022. iupk . concurrent with closing the transaction, the indonesia government granted pt-fi a new special mining license (iupk) to replace its former contract of work (cow), enabling pt-fi to conduct operations in the grasberg minerals district through 2041. under the terms of the iupk, pt-fi has been granted an extension of mining rights through 2031, with rights to extend mining rights through 2041, subject to pt-fi completing the construction of a new smelter in indonesia within five years of closing the transaction and fulfilling its defined fiscal obligations to the indonesia government. the iupk, and related documentation, contains legal and fiscal terms and is legally enforceable through 2041. in addition, we, as a foreign investor, have rights to resolve investment disputes with the indonesia government through international arbitration. refer to note 13 and item 1a. risk factors for discussion of pt-fi's iupk and risks associated with our indonesia mining operations. 16 table of contents on september 12, 2019, pt-fi received approval from the indonesia government to increase its export quota from approximately 180,000 dry metric tons (dmt) of concentrate to approximately 680,000 dmt for the current export period, which expires march 8, 2020. export licenses are valid for one year periods, subject to review and approval by the indonesia government every six months, depending on smelter construction progress. grasberg minerals district . pt-fi operates in the remote highlands of the sudirman mountain range in the province of papua, indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of new guinea. since 1967, we and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in the approximately 24,600-acre operating area. the operating area is accessible by portsite facilities (arafura sea) and by the timika airport. the project area includes a 70-mile main service road from portsite to the mill complex. after mining the final phase of the grasberg open pit during 2019, the grasberg minerals district includes the following underground mines that are being operated or in advanced development; the grasberg block cave, the deep mill level zone (dmlz), big gossan and the deep ore zone (doz). as further discussed in md&amp;a, pt-fi is ramping-up production from its significant underground ore bodies and continues to achieve important milestones to produce large-scale quantities of copper and gold. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to produce large-scale quantities of copper and gold. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with development projects and underground mines. production from the grasberg minerals district, including the former rio tinto joint venture share, totaled 0.6 billion pounds of copper and 0.9 million ounces of gold in 2019 , 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 2.7 million ounces of gold in 2018 , and 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 1.6 million ounces of gold in 2017 . our principal source of power for all of our indonesia operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. a combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. our indonesia operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. grasberg open pit pt-fi began open-pit mining of the grasberg ore body in 1990. the final phase of the grasberg open pit was mined during 2019, including the removal of the open pit ramps. in aggregate, the grasberg open pit produced over 27 billion pounds of copper and 46 million ounces of gold in the 30-year period from 1990 through 2019. ore milled from the grasberg open pit averaged 60,100 metric tons per day in 2019 , 133,300 metric tons per day in 2018 and 101,800 metric tons per day in 2017 . grasberg block cave the grasberg block cave ore body is the same ore body historically mined from the surface in the grasberg open pit. undercutting, drawbell construction and ore extraction activities in the grasberg block cave underground mine continue to track expectations. monitoring data on cave propagation in the grasberg block cave underground mine is providing confidence in growing production rates over time. as existing drawpoints mature and additional drawpoints are added, cave expansion is expected to accelerate production rates to an average of 30,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2020, over 60,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2021 and 130,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2023 from five production blocks spanning 335,000 square meters. ore milled from the grasberg block cave underground mine averaged 8,600 metric tons per day in 2019, 4,000 metric tons per day in 2018 and 3,600 metric tons per day in 2017. production at the grasberg block cave underground mine is expected to continue through 2041. the grasberg block cave fleet consists of approximately 460 pieces of mobile equipment. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 52 lhd units and 35 haul trucks. each production lhd unit typically carries approximately 11 metric tons of ore and transfer ore into 55 to 60 metric ton capacity haul trucks. in addition, the grasberg block cave has a rail haulage system currently operating with 3 locomotives and 27 ore wagons that haul the ore to the first of the 3 planned gyratory crushers located underground via an automated rail system. each ore wagon typically carries 30 metric tons. 17 table of contents dmlz underground mine the dmlz ore body lies below the doz underground mine at the 2,590-meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the ertsberg east skarn system and neighboring ertsberg porphyry. the dmlz has continued its ramp-up of production. hydraulic fracturing operations have been effective in managing rock stresses and pre-conditioning the cave following mining-induced seismic activity experienced in 2017 and 2018. ore extraction continues to exceed expectations, averaging 14,900 metric tons of ore per day in fourth-quarter 2019 and reached approximately 16,000 metric tons of ore per day at year-end 2019. ongoing hydraulic fracturing operations combined with continued undercutting and drawbell openings in the two currently active production blocks are expected to expand the cave, supporting higher production rates that are expected to average 29,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2020, approach 60,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2021 and 80,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2022 from three production blocks. ore milled from the dmlz underground mine averaged 9,800 metric tons of ore per day in 2019 , and 3,200 metric tons per day in both 2018 and 2017. production at the dmlz underground mine is expected to continue through 2041. the dmlz fleet consists of over 290 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 22 lhd units and 9 haul trucks used in production and development activities. big gossan underground mine the big gossan ore body lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. it is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. the mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. the crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. the belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. ore milled from the big gossan underground mine averaged 6,100 metric tons per day in 2019, 3,800 metric tons per day in 2018 and 600 metric tons per day in 2017. production at the big gossan underground mine is expected to continue through 2041. the big gossan fleet consists of over 88 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 12 lhd units and 9 haul trucks used in development and production activities. doz underground mine the doz ore body lies vertically below the now depleted intermediate ore zone. pt-fi began production from the doz ore body in 1989 using open-stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the grasberg open pit. production resumed in 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level. the doz is a mature block-cave mine that previously operated at 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. current operating rates from the doz underground mine are driven by the value of the incremental doz ore grade compared to the ore from the dmlz and grasberg block cave underground mines. ore milled from the doz underground mine averaged 25,500 metric tons per day in 2019, 33,800 metric tons per day in 2018 and 31,200 metric tons per day in 2017. production at the doz underground mine is expected to continue through 2022. the doz fleet consists of 186 pieces of mobile equipment. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 40 lhd units and 19 haul trucks. the trucks dump into two gyratory crushers, and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. 18 table of contents description of indonesia ore bodies . our indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the grasberg monzodiorite and the ertsberg diorite. the host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the sudirman range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. the igneous-hosted ore bodies (the grasberg block cave and portions of the doz) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. the sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the doz and all of the big gossan) occur as magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. the copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district's ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. these gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. the following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported indonesia ore bodies. 19 table of contents the following map, which encompasses an area of 42 square kilometers (16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported indonesia ore bodies and their locations. smelting facilities and other mining properties atlantic copper . our wholly owned atlantic copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the huelva, spain, port authorities, which are scheduled to expire in 2039. the design capacity of the smelter is approximately 300,000 metric tons of copper per year, and the refinery has a capacity of 286,000 metric tons of copper per year. atlantic copper produced 272,000 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 268,300 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2019 ; 295,300 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 283,100 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2018; and 283,100 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 271,400 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2017. following is a summary of atlantic copper's concentrate purchases from unaffiliated third parties and our copper mining operations for the years ended december 31: 2019 2018 2017 third parties 73 % 77 % 67 % north america copper mines 22 14 18 south america mining 2 5 15 indonesia mining 3 4 100 % 100 % 100 % atlantic copper's major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with shorter-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. atlantic copper completed a 79-day major maintenance turnaround in 2013, a 16-day maintenance turnaround in 2015, a 27-day maintenance turnaround in 2017 and a 16-day maintenance turnaround in 2019. the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2021. pt smelting . pt-fi's former cow required us to construct, or cause to be constructed, a smelter in indonesia if we and the indonesia government determined that such a project would be economically viable. in 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of pt smelting, an indonesia company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia. pt smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. pt-fi owns 25 percent of pt smelting, with the remainder owned by mitsubishi 20 table of contents materials corporation (60.5 percent), mitsubishi corporation rtm japan ltd. (9.5 percent) and jx nippon mining &amp; metals corporation (5 percent). pt-fi's contract with pt smelting requires pt-fi to supply 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (at market rates subject to a minimum or maximum treatment charge rate) necessary for pt smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. pt-fi may also sell copper concentrate to pt smelting at market rates for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. pt-fi supplied 90 percent of pt smelting's concentrate requirements in both 2019 and 2018 and 93 percent in 2017. in early 2017, the indonesia government issued new regulations to address exports of unrefined metals, including copper concentrate and anode slimes, and other matters related to the mining sector. these regulations permit the export of anode slimes, which is necessary for pt smelting to continue operating. as a result of labor disturbances and a delay in the renewal of its export license for anode slimes, pt smelting's operations were shut down from mid-january 2017 until early march 2017. in march 2019, pt smelting received a one-year extension of its anode slimes export license, which currently expires march 11, 2020. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. pt smelting produced 246,100 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 241,200 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2019 ; 258,800 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 257,600 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2018; and 245,800 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 247,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2017. pt smelting's maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. pt smelting completed a 30-day maintenance turnaround during 2018, and the next major turnaround is scheduled to start in november 2020. miami smelter . we own and operate a smelter at our miami mining operation in arizona. the smelter has been operating for over 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, improve production and comply with air quality requirements. in 2018, the miami smelter completed the installation of emission control equipment that allows it to operate in compliance with current air quality standards. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. the miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our north america copper mines. concentrate processed through the smelter totaled 641,000 metric tons in 2019 , 729,900 metric tons in 2018 and 612,600 metric tons in 2017. in addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrate, the miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our north america leaching operations. major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) are anticipated to occur approximately every two years for the miami smelter. the miami smelter completed a major maintenance turnaround in the first half of 2019, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2021. rod &amp; refining operations . our rod &amp; refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in north america, including a refinery in el paso, texas; rod mills in el paso, texas, norwich, connecticut, and miami, arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in bayway, new jersey. we refine our copper anode production from our miami smelter at our el paso refinery. the el paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at our miami smelter. our el paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. molybdenum conversion facilities . we process molybdenum concentrate at our conversion plants in the u.s. and europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates and molybdenum disulfide. we operate molybdenum roasters in sierrita, arizona; fort madison, iowa; and rotterdam, the netherlands, and we operate a molybdenum pressure-leach plant in bagdad, arizona. we also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in stowmarket, united kingdom. 21 table of contents freeport cobalt . in march 2013, we acquired a cobalt chemical refinery in kokkola, finland, and the related sales and marketing business which provided direct end-market access for the cobalt hydroxide production at the tenke fungurume mine in the democratic republic of congo, in which we held an interest prior to our sale of tf holdings limited in 2016. we, as operator, held an effective 56 percent ownership interest. the remaining effective ownership interest was held by lundin mining corporation (24 percent) and la g n rale des carri res et des mines (20 percent). the kokkola refinery has an annual refining capacity of approximately 15,000 metric tons of cobalt. in fourth-quarter 2019, we completed the sale of the cobalt refinery and related cobalt cathode precursor business to umicore. under the terms of the agreement, we separated the cobalt business, and umicore acquired the refinery and cathode precursor business, which represents approximately 60 percent of the refinery's historical revenues. we and the current noncontrolling interest partners in freeport cobalt will retain the remaining cobalt business, which is a producer of cobalt fine powders, chemicals, catalysts, ceramics and pigments. refer to note 2 for additional discussion of the disposition. other north america copper mines . we also have five non-operating copper mines ajo, bisbee, tohono, twin buttes and christmas, which are located in arizona that have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require new or updated environmental studies, new permits, and additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status. mining development projects and exploration activities capital expenditures for mining operations totaled $2.65 billion (including $1.5 billion for major projects) in 2019 , $2.0 billion (including $1.2 billion for major projects) in 2018 and $1.4 billion (including $0.9 billion for major projects) in 2017 . capital expenditures for major projects during 2019 and 2018 were primarily associated with underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district and development of the lone star copper leach project. capital expenditures for major projects during 2017 were primarily associated with the cerro verde expansion project and underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district. refer to md&amp;a for projected capital expenditures for the year 2020. we have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. as further discussed in md&amp;a, our near-term major development projects primarily include the underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district and development of the lone star copper leach project, which is nearing completion. considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. additionally, in response to market conditions, the timing of our expenditures will continue to be reviewed. we continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our mineral reserves. pt-fi has also committed to construct a new smelter in indonesia by december 21, 2023. refer to md&amp;a for a discussion of the smelter project. we also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the grasberg minerals district for the kucing liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. we expect to mine the kucing liar ore body using the block-cave method. aggregate long-term capital cost estimates for development of the kucing liar ore body are projected to approximate $3.6 billion, and the timing of development is under review. additionally, full development would require $5.7 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types. the timing of this project and trade-off studies are currently being reviewed. our mining exploration activities are generally associated with our existing mines focusing on opportunities to expand reserves and resources to support development of additional future production capacity. exploration results continue to indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions in north america and south america. exploration spending associated with mining operations totaled $77 million in 2019 , $78 million in 2018 and $72 million in 2017 . refer to md&amp;a for projected exploration expenditures for the year 2020 . refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion of risks associated with mine development projects and exploration activities, and pt-fi's iupk. 22 table of contents sources and availability of energy, natural resources and raw materials our copper mining operations require significant amounts of energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented approximately 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2019 , including purchases of approximately 230 million gallons of diesel fuel; 8,200 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america and south america copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 675 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 million mmbtu (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. based on current cost estimates, energy will approximate 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2020 . our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. for a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. sulphuric acid is used in the sx/ew process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulfur burners at the safford mine. sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties. community and human rights we have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and that are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. we continue to make significant expenditures on community development, health, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs clean water and sanitation projects public health programs, including malaria control and human immunodeficiency virus agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs basic education programs cultural promotion and preservation programs community infrastructure development charitable donations in december 2000, we endorsed the joint u.s. state department-british foreign office voluntary principles on human rights and security (voluntary principles). we participated in developing these voluntary principles with other major natural resource companies and international human rights organizations and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. the voluntary principles provide guidelines for our security programs, including interaction with host-government security personnel, private security contractors and our internal security employees. our human rights policy, most recently updated in august 2017, reflects our full commitment to the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights. we have embarked on a program to plan and conduct site-level human rights impact assessments (hria) at our global operations. hrias help us to embed human rights considerations into our business practices, including site-level sustainable development risk registers. we completed a hria at our cerro verde operation in peru in 2017 and at our new mexico mining operations in 2018. we also participate in a multi-industry human rights working group to gain insight from peer companies. we believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. as part of our ongoing commitment to sustainable community development, we have made and expect to continue making investments in certain social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations from time to time. over the last three years, these investments have averaged $136 million per year. nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. 23 table of contents south america . cerro verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, cerro verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve arequipa. in addition, an agreement was reached with the peru government for development of a water storage network that was financed by cerro verde and a distribution network that was financed by the cerro verde civil association. cerro verde reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, the local water utility company and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa, which was completed in 2015. the wastewater treatment plant supplements existing water supplies to support cerro verde's concentrator expansion and also improves the local water quality, enhances agriculture products grown in the area and reduces the risk of waterborne illnesses. in addition to these projects, cerro verde annually makes significant community development investments in the arequipa region. security matters . consistent with our operating permits in peru and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, cerro verde maintains its own internal security department. both employees and contractors perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights and voluntary principles training annually. some contractors assigned to protection of expatriate personnel are armed. these contractors also receive training in defensive driving and firearms handling. cerro verde's costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $9 million in 2019 and $8 million in both 2018 and 2017. cerro verde, like all businesses and residents of peru, relies on the peru government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the peru government is responsible for employing police personnel and directing their operations. cerro verde has limited public security forces in support of its operation, with the arrangement defined through a memorandum of understanding with the peru national police. cerro verde's share of support costs for government-provided security approximated $1 million in each of the years 2019, 2018 and 2017. indonesia . in 1996, pt-fi established the freeport partnership fund for community development (the partnership fund) through which pt-fi has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education, economic development and local infrastructure. pt-fi had committed through december 31, 2019, to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local communities in its area of operations through the partnership fund. negotiations to extend this agreement are currently underway though pt-fi will continue its contributions to ensure there are no interruptions in the implementation of approved projects. pt-fi recorded costs of $28 million in 2019 , $55 million in 2018 and $44 million in 2017 for this commitment. historically, the amungme and kamoro community development organization ( lembaga pengembangan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro ) oversaw disbursement of the program funds pt-fi contributed to the partnership fund. throughout 2019, pt-fi consulted with key stakeholders to restructure the management of the partnership fund in compliance with pt-fi's iupk. beginning in february 2020, the partnership fund is now managed by a legally recognized indonesian foundation ( yayasan pemberdayaan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro or ypmak). ypmak is governed by a board of governors consisting of seven representatives, including four from pt-fi. in addition to the partnership fund, pt-fi has made and expects to continue making annual investments in public health, education, community infrastructure and local economic development. security matters . consistent with our ongoing commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, pt-fi maintains its own internal civilian security department. both employees and contractors are unarmed and perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights training annually. pt-fi's costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $52 million in 2019 , $59 million in 2018 and $54 million in 2017 . 24 table of contents pt-fi, like all businesses and residents of indonesia, relies on the indonesia government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and protection of personnel and property. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesia government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. this designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. the indonesia government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. from the outset of pt-fi's operations, the indonesia government has looked to pt-fi to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the indonesia government and the remote location of and lack of development in papua. pt-fi's financial support of the indonesia government security institutions assigned to pt-fi's operations area represents a prudent response to pt-fi's requirements and commitments to protect its workforce and property, and better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged and have the logistical resources to patrol pt-fi's roads and secure its area of operations. in addition, the provision of such support is consistent with our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and reflects our commitment to pursue practices that respect human rights. pt-fi's support costs for the government-provided security totaled $22 million in 2019 , $27 million in 2018 and $23 million in 2017 . this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, including food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion of security risks in indonesia. 25 table of contents mining production and sales data years ended december 31, production sales copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 (fcx's net interest in %) north america morenci (72%) a 730 684 737 717 700 713 bagdad (100%) 218 199 173 218 197 164 safford (100%) 110 123 150 111 127 154 sierrita (100%) 160 152 160 157 154 154 miami (100%) 15 16 19 15 16 18 chino (100%) 175 173 215 174 176 217 tyrone (100%) 48 55 61 49 56 61 other (100%) 1 2 3 1 2 3 total north america 1,457 1,404 1,518 1,442 1,428 1,484 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 1,003 1,049 1,062 1,002 1,051 1,062 el abra (51%) 180 200 173 181 202 173 total south america 1,183 1,249 1,235 1,183 1,253 1,235 indonesia grasberg minerals district b 607 1,160 984 667 1,130 981 consolidated 3,247 3,813 3,737 3,292 c 3,811 c 3,700 c less noncontrolling interests 668 695 670 679 694 670 net 2,579 3,118 3,067 2,613 3,117 3,030 average realized price per pound $ 2.73 $ 2.91 $ 2.93 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) north america (100%) 19 23 23 18 23 22 indonesia b 863 2,416 1,554 973 2,366 1,540 consolidated 882 2,439 1,577 991 2,389 1,562 less noncontrolling interests 162 228 145 182 223 144 net 720 2,211 1,432 809 2,166 1,418 average realized price per ounce $ 1,415 $ 1,254 $ 1,268 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) henderson (100%) 12 14 12 n/a n/a n/a climax (100%) 17 21 20 n/a n/a n/a north america copper mines (100%) a 32 32 33 n/a n/a n/a cerro verde (53.56%) 29 28 27 n/a n/a n/a consolidated 90 95 92 90 94 95 less noncontrolling interest 13 13 13 13 13 12 net 77 82 79 77 81 83 average realized price per pound $ 12.61 $ 12.50 $ 9.33 a. amounts are net of morenci's undivided joint venture partners' interest. b. effective december 21, 2018, our share ownership in pt-fi is 48.76 percent (refer to note 2 for further discussion). our economic interest in pt-fi is expected to approximate 81 percent through 2022 and 48.76 percent thereafter. c. consolidated sales volumes exclude purchased copper of 379 million pounds in 2019, 356 million pounds in 2018 and 273 million pounds in 2017. 26 table of contents mineral reserves proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. the term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the term proven reserves means reserves for which (i) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (ii) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (iii) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. the term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with our estimates of proven and probable reserves. estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at december 31, 2019 , were determined using metals price assumptions of $2.50 per pound for copper, $1,200 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. for the three-year period ended december 31, 2019 , lme copper settlement prices averaged $2.83 per pound, london pm gold prices averaged $1,306 per ounce and the weekly average price for molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $10.50 per pound. the estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. recoverable reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2019 copper a (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) north america 47.2 0.5 2.87 south america 33.2 0.71 indonesia b 35.6 29.1 consolidated basis c 116.0 29.6 3.58 net equity interest d 83.4 16.1 3.25 a. estimated consolidated recoverable copper reserves include 1.7 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 0.5 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (refer to mill and leach stockpiles for further discussion). b. reflects estimates of minerals that can be recovered through 2041. refer to item 1a. risk factors. c. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our morenci joint venture). excluded from the table above are our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves of 375 million ounces of silver, which were determined using $15 per ounce. d. net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries). excluded from the table above are our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves of 251 million ounces of silver. our net equity interest for estimated metal quantities in indonesia reflects approximately 81 percent from 2020 through 2022 and 48.76 percent from 2023 through 2041. estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2019 proven reserves probable reserves average ore grade average ore grade processing million copper gold moly silver million copper gold moly silver method metric tons % g/t % g/t metric tons % g/t % g/t north america morenci mill 767 0.39 0.02 172 0.36 0.02 crushed leach 419 0.42 119 0.39 rom leach 2,229 0.16 729 0.16 bagdad mill 1,918 0.33 a 0.02 1.39 592 0.29 a 0.02 1.19 rom leach 14 0.32 11 0.26 safford, including lone star crushed leach 641 0.46 171 0.41 sierrita mill 2,662 0.23 a 0.02 1.17 299 0.18 a 0.02 0.92 chino, including cobre mill 146 0.52 0.05 0.01 0.94 79 0.49 0.04 a 0.85 rom leach 91 0.32 8 0.32 tyrone rom leach 44 0.25 5 0.23 henderson mill 55 0.18 12 0.13 climax mill 152 0.15 8 0.09 9,138 2,204 b south america cerro verde mill 809 0.37 0.02 1.97 3,361 0.35 0.01 1.87 crushed leach 39 0.43 10 0.33 rom leach 26 0.27 21 0.18 el abra crushed leach 505 0.43 192 0.38 rom leach 14 0.30 6 0.28 1,393 3,590 indonesia grasberg block cave mill 321 1.11 0.86 3.88 639 0.89 0.66 3.56 dmlz mill 82 0.99 0.82 4.67 347 0.90 0.74 4.34 big gossan mill 17 2.55 1.03 15.71 38 2.22 0.95 13.26 doz mill 8 0.55 0.56 2.60 21 0.48 0.45 2.41 kucing liar c mill 132 1.33 1.09 7.03 208 1.20 1.01 6.43 561 b 1,252 b total fcx - 100% basis 11,091 b 7,046 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. does not foot because of rounding. c. would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. the reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below: g/t grams per metric ton moly molybdenum 27 table of contents estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2019 (continued) proven and probable a average ore grade recoveries b processing million copper gold moly silver copper gold moly silver method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % north america morenci mill 939 0.38 0.02 81.5 49.2 crushed leach 538 0.41 79.6 rom leach 2,958 0.16 38.8 bagdad mill 2,510 0.32 c 0.02 1.34 85.8 59.1 70.6 49.3 rom leach 25 0.30 41.0 safford, including lone star crushed leach 812 0.45 70.5 sierrita mill 2,960 0.23 c 0.02 1.14 83.0 58.4 77.7 49.3 chino, including cobre mill 224 0.51 0.05 0.01 0.91 80.0 77.9 36.8 78.5 rom leach 100 0.32 45.9 tyrone rom leach 49 0.25 55.3 henderson mill 67 0.17 88.5 climax mill 160 0.15 89.5 11,342 south america cerro verde mill 4,170 0.36 0.01 1.89 86.3 54.3 44.7 crushed leach 49 0.41 78.9 rom leach 46 0.23 47.9 el abra crushed leach 697 0.42 54.7 rom leach 20 0.29 38.6 4,982 indonesia grasberg block cave mill 959 0.97 0.73 3.67 84.0 63.5 55.5 dmlz mill 429 0.92 0.75 4.40 86.9 79.1 64.3 big gossan mill 55 2.33 0.97 14.04 91.2 67.7 63.7 doz mill 29 0.50 0.48 2.46 88.2 82.1 66.4 kucing liar d mill 340 1.25 1.04 6.66 85.2 45.3 39.8 1,813 e total fcx - 100% basis 18,137 a. amounts may not equal the sum of proven and probable reserves as presented on the previous page because of rounding. b. recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. c. amounts not shown because of rounding. d. would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. e. does not foot because of rounding. 28 table of contents estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2019 (continued) recoverable reserves copper gold moly silver fcx's processing billion million billion million interest method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. north america morenci 72% mill 6.4 0.19 crushed leach 3.9 rom leach 4.0 bagdad 100% mill 15.2 0.2 0.79 53.4 rom leach 0.1 safford, including lone star 100% crushed leach 5.6 sierrita 100% mill 12.3 0.1 1.23 53.6 chino, including cobre 100% mill 2.0 0.3 0.01 5.1 rom leach 0.3 tyrone 100% rom leach 0.1 henderson 100% mill 0.22 climax 100% mill 0.47 49.9 0.5 a 2.91 112.1 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 1.3 0.02 0.1 100% operations 51.2 0.5 2.93 112.2 consolidated 47.2 0.5 2.87 112.2 net equity interest 47.2 0.5 2.87 112.2 south america cerro verde 53.56% mill 28.2 0.70 113.3 crushed leach 0.3 rom leach 0.1 el abra 51% crushed leach 3.5 rom leach 0.1 32.2 0.70 113.3 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 1.0 0.01 1.7 100% operations 33.2 0.71 115.0 consolidated 33.2 0.71 115.0 net equity interest 17.7 0.38 61.6 indonesia grasberg block cave c mill 17.2 14.2 62.8 dmlz c mill 7.6 8.2 39.0 big gossan c mill 2.6 1.2 15.8 doz c mill 0.3 0.4 1.5 kucing liar c mill 8.0 5.1 29.0 100% operations 35.6 a 29.1 148.2 a consolidated 35.6 29.1 148.2 net equity interest 18.6 15.6 77.6 total fcx 100% basis 120.0 29.6 3.64 375.4 total fcx consolidated basis d 116.0 29.6 3.58 375.4 total fcx net equity interest e 83.4 a 16.1 3.25 251.4 a. does not foot because of rounding. b. refer to mill and leach stockpiles for additional information. c. effective december 21, 2018, our share ownership in pt-fi is 48.76 percent (refer to note 2 for further discussion). our economic interest in pt-fi is expected to approximate 81 percent through 2022 and 48.76 percent thereafter. d. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for morenci's joint venture partner interests (refer to note 3 for further discussion). e. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries). our net equity interest for estimated metal quantities in indonesia reflects approximately 81 percent from 2020 through 2022 and 48.76 percent from 2023 through 2041. 29 table of contents in defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. the objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. we use a break-even cutoff grade to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. the break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum and silver. we value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. the calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. the table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of december 31, 2019 : copper equivalent cutoff grade (percent) molybdenum cutoff grade (percent) mill crushed leach rom leach mill north america morenci 0.17 0.12 0.03 bagdad 0.11 0.03 safford, including lone star 0.12 sierrita 0.15 chino, including cobre 0.22 0.08 tyrone 0.03 henderson 0.12 climax 0.05 south america cerro verde 0.15 0.12 0.08 el abra 0.10 0.07 indonesia grasberg block cave 0.67 dmlz 0.72 big gossan 1.70 doz 0.98 kucing liar 0.79 30 table of contents drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. the following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: average drill hole spacing (in meters) proven probable mining unit mill leach mill leach north america morenci open pit 86 86 122 122 bagdad open pit 86 86 122 122 safford, including lone star open pit 86 122 sierrita open pit 73 104 chino open pit 43 86 86 122 cobre open pit 61 61 91 91 tyrone open pit 86 86 henderson block cave 47 96 climax open pit 61 91 south america cerro verde open pit 55 55 110 110 el abra open pit 75 120 indonesia grasberg block cave block cave 28 67 dmlz block cave 22 63 big gossan open stope 13 37 doz block cave 23 55 kucing liar block cave 39 95 31 table of contents production sequencing the following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body and related stockpiles. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and our current mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that pt-fi will comply with its obligations under the iupk and receive the second 10-year extension from 2031 through 2041 (refer to item 1a. risk factors and note 13 for further discussion). production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. the sequencing dates shown in the chart below include development activity that results in metal production. the ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. in addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below. mill and leach stockpiles mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from an ore body and are available for metal recovery. mill stockpiles contain sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. leach stockpiles contain oxide ores and certain secondary sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. because it is impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. 32 table of contents expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. total copper recovery in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including processing methodology, processing variables, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 80 percent of total copper recovery may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of december 31, 2019 : recoverable million average recovery copper metric tons ore grade (%) rate (%) (billion pounds) mill stockpiles cerro verde 99 0.26 73.1 0.4 north america copper mines 6 0.35 72.9 0.1 105 0.5 leach stockpiles morenci 6,829 0.24 1.0 0.3 bagdad 499 0.25 0.5 a safford, including lone star 316 0.42 7.5 0.2 sierrita 650 0.15 9.5 0.2 miami 498 0.39 1.7 0.1 chino, including cobre 1,756 0.25 3.5 0.3 tyrone 1,155 0.28 1.5 0.1 cerro verde 512 0.47 4.7 0.2 el abra 787 0.44 4.9 0.4 13,003 b 1.8 total fcx - 100% basis 2.3 total fcx - consolidated basis c 2.2 total fcx - net equity interest d 1.7 a. rounds to less than 0.1 billion pounds of recoverable copper. b. does not foot because of rounding. c. consolidated stockpiles represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for morenci's joint venture partner interests. refer to note 3 for further discussion. d. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries). mineralized material we hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. however, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $3.00 per pound for copper, $1,200 per ounce for gold, $12 per pound for molybdenum and $20 per ounce for silver. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with our estimates of mineralized material. 33 table of contents estimated mineralized material at december 31, 2019 milling material leaching material total mineralized material a million million million fcx's metric copper gold moly silver metric copper metric interest tons % g/t % g/t tons % tons north america morenci 72% 2,023 0.25 0.02 1,658 0.17 3,681 bagdad 100% 426 0.30 b 0.02 1.3 1 0.12 427 safford, including lone star 100% 870 0.46 0.06 1.2 962 0.29 1,832 sierrita 100% 1,632 0.18 b 0.02 0.9 1,632 chino, including cobre 100% 282 0.46 0.04 0.01 0.8 29 0.24 312 tyrone 100% 127 0.25 127 henderson 100% 103 0.14 103 climax 100% 378 0.16 378 ajo 100% 621 0.36 0.06 0.01 0.8 621 cochise/bisbee 100% 298 0.44 298 sanchez 100% 196 0.28 196 tohono 100% 275 0.67 284 0.67 559 twin buttes 100% 311 0.47 b 0.03 5.1 103 0.21 413 christmas 100% 367 0.38 0.05 b 1.0 367 south america cerro verde 53.56% 638 0.33 0.01 1.8 36 0.26 674 el abra 51% 2,015 0.40 0.02 0.01 1.3 163 0.24 2,178 indonesia grasberg minerals district 48.76% 2,540 0.68 0.61 3.7 2,540 africa kisanfu c 95% 75 1.84 63 2.43 138 total fcx - 100% basis 12,556 3,920 16,477 d total fcx - consolidated basis e 11,990 3,454 15,444 total fcx - net equity interest f 9,401 3,354 12,756 a. amounts may not equal the sum of milling and leach material because of rounding. b. amounts not shown because of rounding. c. stated tonnage also includes cobalt (0.95 percent for milling material and 0.99 percent for leaching material). d. does not foot because of rounding. e. consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for morenci's joint venture partner interests. refer to note 3 for further discussion. f. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. 34 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of united states (u.s.) federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as plans, projections or expectations relating to ore grades and milling rates; production and sales volumes; unit net cash costs; operating cash flows; capital expenditures; our expectations regarding our share of pt freeport indonesia's (pt-fi) net (loss) income and future cash flows through 2022; pt-fi's development, financing, construction and completion of a new smelter in indonesia; our expectations regarding results associated with productivity and innovation initiatives; exploration efforts and results; development and production activities, rates and costs; liquidity; tax rates; export quotas and duties; the impact of copper, gold and molybdenum price changes; the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings; reserve estimates; execution of the settlement agreement associated with the louisiana coastal erosion cases; and future dividend payments, share purchases and sales. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. we caution readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, expected, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following: financial risks fluctuations in the market prices of the commodities we produce, primarily copper, gold and molybdenum, have caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in our financial performance and in the trading prices of our common stock and debt. extended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and, to a lesser extent, molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and asset values and, if sustained, may adversely affect our ability to repay debt. our financial results will vary with fluctuations in the market prices of the commodities we produce, primarily copper and gold, and to a lesser extent molybdenum. an extended decline in market prices of these commodities could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, the value of our assets and/or our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations; and may depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. additionally, if market prices for our primary commodities decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures, and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. we may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, in which case we may incur losses, and those losses may be material. fluctuations in commodities prices are caused by varied and complex factors beyond our control, including global supply and demand balances and inventory levels; global economic and political conditions; international regulatory, trade and tax policies, including national tariffs; commodities investment activity and speculation; interest rates; the strength of the u.s. dollar compared to foreign currencies; the price and availability of substitute products; and changes in technology. volatility in global economic growth, particularly in developing economies, has the potential to adversely affect future demand and prices for commodities. geopolitical uncertainty, including the united kingdom's exit from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit), and protectionism, have the potential to inhibit international trade and negatively impact business confidence, which creates the risk of constraints on our ability to trade in certain markets and has the potential to increase price volatility. copper prices may be affected by demand from china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world, and by changes in demand for industrial, commercial and residential products containing copper. china's economy continues to struggle with rising debt levels, softening domestic consumer demand, the effects of a prolonged trade war, and more recently, the coronavirus outbreak, which has led to the temporary closure of some manufacturing activities in china. although our sales to date have not been significantly affected, a continued slowing in china's economic growth, the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions, changes in china-u.s. relations, or other governmental action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies are difficult to predict and could adversely affect copper prices, demand for our products, our costs, our customers, our suppliers, and the u.s. economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 35 table of contents copper prices have fluctuated historically, with london metal exchange (lme) copper settlement prices ranging from $2.48 per pound to $3.29 per pound during the three years ended december 31, 2019 . lme copper settlement prices averaged $2.72 per pound in 2019, $2.96 per pound in 2018 and $2.80 per pound in 2017. the lme copper settlement price was $2.79 per pound on december 31, 2019 , and $2.53 per pound on january 31, 2020 . factors affecting gold prices may include the relative strength of the u.s. dollar to other currencies, inflation and interest rate expectations, purchases and sales of gold by governments and central banks, demand from china and india, two of the world ' largest consumers of gold, and global demand for jewelry containing gold. the london pm gold price averaged $1,393 per ounce in 2019, $1,268 per ounce in 2018 and $1,257 per ounce in 2017. the london pm gold price was $1,515 per ounce on december 30, 2019 (there was no london pm gold price quote on december 31, 2019 ), and $1,584 per ounce on january 31, 2020 . the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price averaged $11.37 per pound in 2019, $11.93 per pound in 2018 and $8.21 per pound in 2017. the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price was $9.23 per pound on december 31, 2019 , and $10.40 per pound on january 31, 2020 . declines in prices of commodities we sell could result in metals inventory adjustments and impairment charges for our long-lived assets. refer to note 4 for additional information regarding metals inventory adjustments. other events that could result in impairment of our long-lived assets include, but are not limited to, decreases in estimated proven and probable mineral reserves and any event that might have a material adverse effect on current and future expected mine production costs. our debt and other financial commitments may limit our financial and operating flexibility. at december 31, 2019 , our total consolidated debt was $ 9.8 billion (see note 8 ) and our total consolidated cash was $2.0 billion . we also have various other financial commitments, including reclamation and environmental obligations, take-or-pay contracts and leases. for further information, refer to the risk factor below relating to mine closure and reclamation regulations, and plugging and abandonment obligations related to our remaining oil and gas properties. although we have been successful in repaying debt in the past and issuing new debt securities in capital markets transactions, there can be no assurance that we can continue to do so. in addition, we may assume additional debt in future periods or reduce our holdings of cash and cash equivalents in connection with funding existing operations, capital expenditures, dividends or in pursuing other business opportunities. our level of indebtedness and other financial commitments could have important consequences to our business, including the following: limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and/or material contingencies, to engage in future development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt; requiring us to sell assets to reduce debt; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. any failure to comply with the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements may result in an event of default that would allow the creditors to accelerate maturities of the related debt, which in turn may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt agreements. our available cash and liquidity may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our debt instruments that may be accelerated upon an event of default. as of january 31, 2020 , our senior unsecured debt was rated bb with a stable outlook by standard &amp; poor's (s&amp;p), bb+ with a stable outlook by fitch ratings (fitch), and ba1 with a stable outlook by moody's investors service (moody's). if we are unable to maintain our indebtedness and financial ratios at levels acceptable to these credit rating agencies, or should our business prospects deteriorate , our current credit ratings could be 36 table of contents downgraded, which could adversely affect the value of our outstanding securities and existing debt and our ability to obtain new financing on favorable terms and could increase our borrowing costs. certain of our debt agreements, including our revolving credit facility, use the london interbank offered rate (libor) as a reference rate. in july 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021, which could cause market volatility or disruption. if libor is unavailable after 2021, our debt with interest rates that are indexed to libor will be determined using various alternative methods to the extent provided for in our agreements, which could result in increases in interest rates on such debt. further, we may need to renegotiate our debt agreements and the loans that utilize libor to replace libor with the new standard that is established by the u.s. alternative rate reference committee, which is currently expected to be the secured overnight bank financing rate. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms, or the establishment of alternative reference rates on our borrowing costs or the capital markets generally . mine closure and reclamation regulations impose substantial costs on our operations and include requirements that we provide financial assurance supporting those obligations. we also have plugging and abandonment obligations related to our remaining oil and gas properties, and are required to provide bonds or other forms of financial assurance in connection with those properties. changes in or the failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. we are required by u.s. federal and state laws and regulations to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans for our mining properties if we are unable to do so. most of our financial assurance obligations are imposed by state laws that vary significantly by jurisdiction, depending on how each state regulates land use and groundwater quality. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and state agencies may also require financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions that are required under settlements of enforcement actions under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980 (cercla) or similar state laws. refer to note 12 for additional information regarding our financial assurance obligations. we are also subject to financial assurance requirements in connection with our remaining oil and gas properties under both state and federal laws, including financial responsibility required under the oil pollution act of 1990 to cover containment and cleanup costs resulting from an oil spill. in 2016, the u.s. bureau of ocean energy management (boem) issued revised requirements for lessees operating in federal waters to secure the cost of plugging, abandoning, decommissioning and/or removing wells, platforms and pipelines at the end of production. the revised requirements eliminate previously provided waivers from requirements to post security. in early 2017, the boem announced a delay in the implementation of certain aspects of the rules pending further review and in june 2017, boem further extended the start date for implementation indefinitely. this extension currently remains in effect. if implemented, the new requirements could require us to post security in the form of bonds or similar assurances. the cost for bonds or other forms of assurances can be substantial, and there is no assurance that they can be obtained in all cases. as of december 31, 2019 , our financial assurance obligations totaled $1.3 billion for closure and reclamation/restoration costs of u.s. mining sites, and $0.5 billion for plugging and abandonment obligations of our remaining oil and gas properties. a substantial portion of our financial assurance obligations are satisfied by fcx and subsidiary guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. our ability to continue to provide guarantees and financial capability demonstrations depends on state and other regulatory requirements, our financial performance and our financial condition. other forms of assurance, such as letters of credit and surety bonds, are costly to provide and, depending on our financial condition and market conditions, may be difficult or impossible to obtain. failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of the affected properties. the laws and regulations governing mine closure and remediation in a particular jurisdiction and oil and gas properties plugging and abandonment obligations are subject to review at any time and may be amended to impose additional requirements and conditions which may cause our provisions for environmental and asset retirement obligations to be underestimated and could materially affect our financial position or results of operations. refer to notes 1 and 12 , for further discussion of our environmental and asset retirement obligations. 37 table of contents unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation or with respect to other contingencies could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in numerous legal proceedings and subject to other contingencies that have arisen or may arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues, including those described in note 12 and in item 3. legal proceedings involving matters such as remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, claims of personal injury or property damage arising from such contamination or from exposure to substances such as lead, arsenic, asbestos, talc and other allegedly toxic substances, disputes over water rights, and disputes with foreign governments or regulatory authorities over royalties, taxes, rights and obligations under concession or other agreements, or other matters. we are also involved periodically in other reviews, inquiries, investigations and other proceedings initiated by or involving government agencies, some of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition, from time to time we are involved in disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties, other sanctions or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. management does not believe, based on currently available information, that the outcome of any individual legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, although individual or cumulative outcomes could be material to our operating results for a particular period, depending on the nature and magnitude of the outcome and the operating results for the period. we may be adversely impacted by increased liabilities and costs related to our defined benefit pension plans. we sponsor defined benefit pension plans for certain current and former employees in the u.s. and a few pension plans for non-u.s. locations which provide for specified payments after retirement. the major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in regulatory requirements or the market value of plan assets, investment returns, interest rates and mortality rates may affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost, future funding requirements of the plans and the funded status as recorded on the balance sheet. a sustained period of low or insufficient returns could require us to fund our pension plans to a greater extent than anticipated. refer to note 9 for further discussion. international risks our international operations are subject to political, economic, social and regional risks of doing business in countries outside the u.s. we are a u.s.-based mining company with substantial assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru and chile and exploration activities in various foreign jurisdictions. accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in countries outside the u.s., our business may be adversely affected by political, economic, social and regional uncertainties in each of these countries. risks of conducting business in countries outside the u.s. include: delays in obtaining or renewing, or the inability to obtain, maintain or renew, or the renegotiation, cancellation, revocation or forced modification of existing contracts, leases, licenses, permits or other agreements and/or approvals; expropriation or nationalization of property, protectionism, or restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital; changes in the host country's laws, regulations and policies (which may be applied retroactively), including, but not limited to, those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, duties, tariffs, divestment, imports, exports (including restrictions on the export of copper concentrates, copper and/or gold), trade regulations, currency and environmental matters (including land use and water use), which because of rising resource nationalism in countries around the world, may impose increasingly onerous requirements on foreign operations and investment; 38 table of contents political, social and economic instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil unrest, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; changes in the aspirations and expectations of local communities in which we operate with respect to our contributions to employee health and safety, infrastructure and community development and other factors that may affect our social license to operate, all of which lead to increased costs; risk of loss associated with trespass, local artisanal or illegal mining, theft and vandalism or due to potential pandemic and endemic health issues; changes in u.s. trade, tax, immigration or other policies that may harm relations with foreign countries or result in retaliatory policies; increases in training and other costs and challenges relating to requirements by governmental entities to employ the nationals of the country in which a particular operation is located; foreign exchange controls, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and inflation; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of an international court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. may be substantially affected by many unpredictable factors beyond our control, some of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. our international operations must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we operate. there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws in recent years. we operate in jurisdictions that have experienced public and private sector corruption and where significant anti-corruption enforcement activities, prosecutions, and settlements have occurred. there can be no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from misinterpretation of or noncompliance with applicable laws and internal policies, recklessness, fraudulent behavior, dishonesty or other inappropriate acts committed by our affiliates, employees, agents or contractors. as such, our corporate policies and processes may not prevent or detect all potential breaches of law or other governance practices. any violation of anti-corruption or anti-bribery laws could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax disputes with indonesia and peru tax authorities (refer to note 12 for further discussion of these matters). other risks specific to certain countries in which we operate are discussed in more detail below. because our mining operations in indonesia are a significant operating asset, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia. our indonesia mining operations include the grasberg minerals district, one of the world's largest copper and gold deposits. these operations are conducted by our subsidiary pt-fi pursuant to a special mining license (iupk) issued by the indonesia government. refer to note 13 for a summary of the iupk's key fiscal terms. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesia government is important because of the significance of our indonesia operations to our business, and because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesia government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. partially because of its significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area where it is located, and the number of people employed, our indonesia operations have been the subject of political debates and of criticism in the indonesia press, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. improper management of our working relationship with the indonesia government could lead to a disruption of operations and/or impact our reputation in indonesia and in the region 39 table of contents where we operate, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, pt indonesia asahan aluminium (persero) (pt inalum), a shareholder in pt-fi, is an indonesia state-owned enterprise. disputes between us and pt inalum may result in litigation or arbitration, which could increase our expenses and distract our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and could create tensions with the indonesia government. the indonesia mining industry is subject to extensive regulation within indonesia, and there have been major developments in laws and regulations applicable to mining concession holders, some of which have conflicted with pt-fi's contractual rights in the past. in particular, the enactment of law no. 4 of 2009 on coal and mineral mining on january 12, 2009 (the mining law) replaced the previous regulatory framework which allowed concession holders, including pt-fi, to conduct mining activities in indonesia under a contract of work system. the mining law, which sets out the regulatory framework for the mining industry in indonesia, only contains substantive principles and leaves many specific issues to be addressed in implementing regulations, some of which have conflicted with pt-fi's contractual rights in the past, including, but not limited to, regulations that imposed a progressive export duty on copper concentrate, restricted exports of copper concentrate and anode slimes, increased royalty rates, and required payment of a smelter assurance bond to support a commitment to construct a new smelter in indonesia (refer to note 13 for further discussion of the smelter assurance bond). in january 2017, pt-fi suspended exports through april 2017 in response to these mining law regulations. the mining law stipulated that previously granted mining rights (through a contract of work) would continue to be valid until expiry, subject to certain adjustments. pt-fi's former contract of work (cow) was concluded pursuant to the 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provided basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. the initial term of pt-fi's former cow was scheduled to expire in 2021 and explicitly provided that it could be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesia government approval, which could not be withheld or delayed unreasonably. prior to the issuance of the iupk to pt-fi in december 2018, pt-fi had been engaged in discussions with the indonesia government since 2012 regarding various provisions of its former cow, including extending its term. notwithstanding provisions in pt-fi's former cow prohibiting it from doing so, the indonesia government sought to modify pt-fi's former cow to address provisions contained in the mining law and implementing regulations adopted thereunder, some of which were not required under or conflicted with pt-fi's former cow, including, but not limited to (i) restrictions on pt-fi's basic right to export mining products; (ii) imposition of additional export duties and higher royalty rates; (iii) imposition of excess surface water taxes (refer to note 12 ); (iv) imposition of new requirement to build additional smelter capacity in indonesia; (v) unreasonable withholding and delay in granting approval of two successive ten-year extensions of the term of the former cow; and (vi) imposition of new divestment requirements. in early 2017, the indonesia government issued new regulations to address exports of unrefined metals, including copper concentrate and anode slimes, and other matters related to the mining sector. pt-fi's export license for copper concentrate is valid for one year periods, subject to review and approval by the indonesia government every six months, depending on smelter construction progress. pt-fi's export license expires on march 8, 2020. the 2017 regulations also permit the export of anode slimes, which is necessary for pt smelting (pt-fi's 25-percent-owned copper smelter and refinery located in gresik, indonesia) to continue operating. pt smelting's export license for anode slimes expires on march 11, 2020. in addition to a delay in the renewal of its export license for anode slimes in 2017, pt smelting's operations were shut down from mid-january 2017 until early march 2017 as a result of labor disturbances. copper concentrate sales to pt smelting totaled over 10 percent of our consolidated revenues for each of the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. we cannot predict when pt-fi's copper concentrate license and pt smelting's anode slimes export license may be renewed. pt-fi's sale of concentrates could be interrupted if either of these export license is not timely renewed or if pt smelting is unable to operate either due to other operational or financial constraints, which would adversely impact our revenues and operations. we cannot assure you that future regulatory changes affecting the mining industry in indonesia will not be introduced or unexpectedly repealed, or that new interpretations of existing laws and regulations will not be issued, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 40 table of contents we will not mine all of pt-fi's ore reserves in the grasberg minerals district before the initial term of pt-fi's iupk expires in 2031 and the iupk may not be extended through 2041 if pt-fi fails to abide by the terms and conditions of the iupk and applicable laws and regulations. on december 21, 2018, pt-fi was granted an iupk to replace its former cow, enabling pt-fi to conduct operations in the grasberg minerals district through 2041. under the terms of the iupk, pt-fi has been granted mining rights through 2031, with rights to extend its mining rights through 2041, subject to, among other things, pt-fi completing the construction of a new smelter in indonesia by december 21, 2023, and fulfilling its defined fiscal obligations to the indonesia government. refer to note 13 for a summary of the iupk's key fiscal terms. the iupk also requires pt-fi to pay duties on concentrate exports of 5 percent, declining to 2.5 percent when smelter development progress exceeds 30 percent, and eliminated when smelter development progress exceeds 50 percent. smelter development progress will be determined by an independent verifier appointed by the ministry of energy and mineral resources (memr) and subject to approval by the memr. engineering and front-end engineering and design for the selected process technology are ongoing, with construction of the smelter expected to begin in 2020. the preliminary capital cost estimate for the project approximates $3 billion, and pt-fi is pursuing financing and commercial arrangements for this project. the economics of the new smelter will be borne by pt-fi's shareholders according to their respective share ownership percentages. pt-fi's ability to raise and service significant new sources of capital will be a function of macroeconomic conditions, future market prices as well as pt-fi's operational performance, cash flow and debt position, among other factors. financing may not be available when needed or, if available, the terms of such financing may not be favorable to pt-fi. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and pt-fi's current long-term mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that pt-fi will abide by the terms and conditions of the iupk and will be granted the 10-year extension from 2031 through 2041. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the iupk. prior to the end of 2031, we expect to mine 52 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2019 , representing 56 percent of our net equity share of recoverable copper reserves and 62 percent of our net equity share of recoverable gold reserves. if pt-fi does not complete the construction of a new smelter in indonesia by december 21, 2023, or fulfill its defined fiscal obligations to the indonesia government as set forth in the iupk, the iupk will likely not be extended from 2031 to 2041, and we would be unable to mine all of pt-fi's ore reserves in the grasberg minerals district, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. operational risks our mining operations are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business and our underground mining operations can be particularly dangerous. our mines are very large in scale and, by their nature are subject to significant operational risks, some of which are outside of our control, and many of which are not covered fully, or in some cases even partially, by insurance. these operational risks, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flow, include earthquakes, rainstorms, floods, and other natural disasters; environmental hazards, including discharge of metals, concentrates, pollutants or hazardous chemicals; surface or underground fires; equipment failures; accidents, including in connection with mining equipment, milling equipment or conveyor systems, transportation of chemicals, explosives or other materials and in the transportation of employees and business partners to and from sites; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses of our underground mines or tailings impoundments; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; and unexpected geological formations or conditions (whether in mineral or gaseous form). we are facing continued geotechnical challenges due to the older age of some of our mines and a trend toward mining deeper pits and more complex deposits. no assurances can be given that unanticipated geotechnical and hydrological conditions may or may not occur, nor whether these conditions may lead to events such as landslides and pit wall failures, in the future or that such events will be detected in advance. geotechnical instabilities can be difficult to predict and are often affected by risks and hazards outside of our control, such as seismic activity or severe weather, which may lead to floods, mudslides, pit-wall instability, and possibly even slippage of material. during the first quarter of 2019, our el abra operation in chile experienced heavy rainfall and electrical storms. as a result, our operating results for 2019 were impacted by a suspension of el abra's crushed leach stacking operations 41 table of contents for approximately 35 days. we cannot predict whether similar events will occur in the future or the extent to which any such event would affect this, or any of our other operations. for a discussion of risks specific to our tailings management, see below our management of waste rock and tailings are subject to significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks that could adversely affect our business. underground mining operations can be particularly dangerous, and in may 2013, a tragic accident, which resulted in 28 fatalities and 10 injuries, occurred at pt-fi when the rock structure above the ceiling of an underground training facility collapsed. pt-fi temporarily suspended mining and processing activities at the grasberg complex to conduct inspections and resumed open-pit mining and concentrating activities in june 2013, and underground operations in july 2013. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia mining operations involve additional risks given their location in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. these conditions have required us to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. the area also receives extreme rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. further, the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. we maintain insurance to cover some of these risks and hazards; however, our insurance may not sufficiently cover losses from an unexpected natural or operating disaster. we maintain insurance in amounts that are believed to be reasonable depending on the circumstances surrounding the identified risk. no assurance can be given that such insurance will continue to be available, or that it will be available at economically feasible premiums, or that we will be able to obtain or maintain such insurance. in addition, we do not have coverage for certain environmental losses and other risks, as such coverage cannot be purchased at a commercially reasonable cost. the lack of, or insufficiency of, insurance coverage could adversely affect our cash flow and overall profitability. the occurrence of one or more of these events in connection with our exploration activities and development of and production from mining operations may result in the death of, or personal injury to, our employees, other personnel or third parties, the loss of mining equipment, damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, significant repair costs, monetary losses, deferral or unanticipated fluctuations in production, extensive community disruption, loss of licenses, permits or necessary approvals to operate, loss of infrastructure and services, disruption to essential supplies or delivery of our products, environmental damage and potential legal liabilities, all of which may adversely affect our reputation, business, prospects, results of operations and financial position. our management of waste rock and tailings are subject to significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks that could adversely affect our business. the waste rock (including overburden) and tailings produced in our mining operations represent our largest volume of waste material. managing the volume of waste rock and tailings presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks primarily relating to structural stability, geochemistry, water quality and dust generation. management of this waste is regulated in the jurisdictions where we operate and our programs are designed to be in compliance with applicable national, state and local laws, permits and approved environmental impact studies. we maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are effectively large embankments that must be engineered, constructed and monitored to ensure structural stability and avoid leakages or structural collapse. our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions, and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage at all of our operations. in indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks discussed in more detail below under environmental risks - our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs . affiliates of our company currently operate 18 tailings storage facilities, 16 in the u.s. and 2 in peru; and manage 58 in the u.s. that are inactive or closed (approximately three-fourths of the inactive facilities have been closed). our inventory of tailings storage facilities comprises 13 active and 52 inactive or closed facilities with an upstream design, 5 active and 5 inactive with a centerline design, and 1 closed facility with a downstream design. in 2019, the company produced approximately 309 million metric tons of tailings. the failure of tailings and other embankments 42 table of contents at any of our mining operations could cause severe, and in some cases catastrophic, property and environmental damage and loss of life, as well as adverse effects on our business and reputation. many of our tailings storage facilities are located in areas where a failure has the potential to impact individual dwellings and a limited number of impoundments are in areas where a failure has the potential to impact nearby communities or mining infrastructure. as a result, our programs take into account the significant consequences resulting from a potential failure, and we apply substantial financial resources and both internal and external technical resources to the safe management of all those facilities. our tailings management and stewardship program, which involves qualified external engineers of record and periodic oversight by independent tailings technical review boards and our tailings stewardship team, complies with the tailings governance framework on preventing catastrophic failure of tailings storage facilities adopted in december 2016 by the international council on mining and metals (icmm) and required to be implemented by icmm members. we continue to enhance our existing practices and work with icmm on additional initiatives to strengthen the design, operation and closure of tailings storage facilities in an effort to reduce the risk of severe or catastrophic failure of those facilities. however, no assurance can be given that these events will not occur in the future. the importance of careful design, management and monitoring of large impoundments has been emphasized in recent years by large scale tailings dam failures at unaffiliated mines, which resulted in numerous fatalities and caused extensive property and environmental damage. as a result of recent failures, international groups are drafting standards that management may elect to implement at our tailings storage facilities. these standards, if implemented, could require changes to our tailings stewardship program and approaches, although it is uncertain if these changes would result in material capital or operating cost increases. based on observations from such recent tailings failures, in addition to fatalities and severe personal, property and environmental damages, these events could result in limited or restricted access to mine sites, suspension of operations, decrease in reserves, legal liability (possibly involving the freezing of assets), government investigations, additional regulations and restrictions on mining operations in response to any such failure, increased monitoring costs and production costs, increased insurance costs or inability to obtain insurance, increased costs and/or limited access to capital, remediation costs, inability to comply with any additional safety requirements or obtain necessary certifications, evacuation or relocation of communities or other emergency action, and other impacts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. labor unrest, violence, activism and civil and religious strife could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as of december 31, 2019 , approximately 37 percent of our global labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 21 percent of our global labor force was covered by agreements that have expired and are currently being negotiated or will expire during 2020. labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. refer to items 1. and 2. business and properties for additional information regarding labor matters, and expiration dates of such agreements. we could experience labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, or lockouts that could adversely affect our operations. for example, during third-quarter 2016, pt-fi experienced labor productivity issues and a 10-day work stoppage that began in late september 2016. these labor productivity issues continued during fourth-quarter 2016 and the first half of 2017. beginning in mid-april 2017, pt-fi experienced a high level of worker absenteeism, which unfavorably impacted mining and milling rates. a significant number of employees and contractors elected to participate in an illegal strike action beginning in may 2017, and were subsequently deemed to have voluntarily resigned under existing indonesia laws and regulations resulting in increased costs associated with employee severance. we cannot predict whether additional labor disruptions will occur. significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations could significantly reduce our production and sales volumes or disrupt operations, which could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. 43 table of contents south american countries have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and general economic and political instability. during 2019, both peru and chile experienced significant and prolonged civil unrest unrelated to our operations. production and sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 were impacted by protests associated with an unaffiliated copper development project in peru that blocked access to the shipping ports and main transportation routes. while the civil unrest did not significantly impact our results for 2019, if it continues, our south america operations could be materially impacted, and as a result, we may not be able to meet our production and sales targets. we cannot predict whether similar or more significant incidents of civil unrest will occur in the future in peru or chile. indonesia has long faced separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. several separatist groups have sought increased political independence for the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesia military and police. in addition, illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted for years to move them away from our facilities. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our indonesia operations. in 2009, a series of shooting incidents occurred within the pt-fi project area, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations. the shooting incidents continued on a sporadic basis through january 2015. during this time, there were 20 fatalities and more than 50 injuries to our employees, contractor employees, government security personnel and civilians. the next shooting incident occurred in august 2017, and a series of shooting incidents continued on a sporadic basis within the pt-fi project area and in nearby areas through january 2020, resulting in 2 fatalities and 25 injuries. in december 2018, a mass shooting incident targeting a highway construction crew occurred in a remote mountain area approximately 100 miles east of the pt-fi project area, resulting in at least 19 fatalities and several reported as missing. separatist security incidents, including shootings, continue to be sporadically reported, and pt-fi continues to monitor the occurrence of incidents in the region. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt-fi continues to work with the indonesia government to address security issues within the pt-fi project area and in nearby areas. we continue to limit the use of the road leading to our mining and milling operations to secured convoys, including transport of personnel by armored vehicles in designated areas. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our operations. if other disruptive incidents occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict at this time. our mining operations depend on the availability of significant quantities of secure water supplies. our mining operations require physical availability and secure legal rights to significant quantities of water for mining and ore processing activities, and related support facilities. most of our north america and south america mining operations are in areas where competition for water supplies is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on many factors, including our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. as discussed in item 3. legal proceedings, in arizona, where our operations use both surface and groundwater, we are a participant in an active general stream adjudication in which arizona courts have been attempting, for over 40 years, to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for the gila river, one of the state's largest river systems. this stream adjudication primarily affects our morenci, safford and sierrita mines. the adjudication is addressing the state law claims of thousands of competing users, including us, as well as significant federal water claims that are potentially adverse to the state law claims of both surface water and groundwater users. groundwater is treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which historically allowed landowners to pump subsurface water, subject only to the requirement of putting it to reasonable use. however, court decisions in the adjudication have concluded that some underground water constitutes subflow that is to be treated legally as surface water and is therefore subject to the arizona doctrine of prior appropriation and subject to the adjudication and potentially unavailable to groundwater pumpers in the absence of valid surface water claims. any re-characterization of groundwater as surface water could affect the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a user of both groundwater and surface water in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings. given the legal and technical complexity of these adjudications, their long history, and their long-term legal, economic and 44 table of contents political implications, it is difficult to predict the timing or the outcome of these proceedings. if we are not able to satisfactorily resolve the issues being addressed in the adjudications, our ability to pump groundwater could be diminished or curtailed, and our operations at morenci, safford and sierrita could be adversely affected unless we are able to acquire alternative resources. water for our cerro verde operation in peru comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collects water primarily from seasonal precipitation. as a result of occasional drought conditions, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our cerro verde operations. water for our el abra mining operation in chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. the agreement to pump from this aquifer is subject to continued monitoring of the aquifer level to ensure that environmentally sensitive areas are not impacted by our pumping. if impact occurs, we would have to reduce pumping to restore water levels, which could have an adverse effect on production from el abra. although we typically have sufficient water for our indonesia operations (the area receives considerable rainfall that has led to periodic floods and mudslides), lower rainfall could affect our water supply availability from time to time. although each of our mining operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, as discussed above, some supplies are subject to adjudication proceedings, the outcome of which we cannot predict, and the availability of additional supplies that may be required for potential future expansions is uncertain. while we are taking actions to acquire additional back-up water supplies, such supplies may not be available at acceptable cost, or at all, so that the loss of a water right or currently available water supply could force us to curtail operations or force premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. the development of our underground mines and operations are also subject to other unique risks. mine development projects typically require a number of years and significant expenditures during the development phase before production is possible. currently, our major projects include underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district, which currently constitutes approximately 31 percent of our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper reserves, and completion of the lone star copper leach project in arizona. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects including, but not limited to, unexpected or difficult geological formations or conditions, potential delays, cost overruns, lower levels of production during ramp-up periods, shortages of material or labor, construction defects, breakdowns and injuries to persons and property. the development of our underground mines and operations are also subject to other unique risks including, but not limited to, underground fires or floods, ventilating harmful gases, fall-of-ground accidents, and seismic activity resulting from unexpected or difficult geological formations or conditions. while we anticipate taking all measures that we deem reasonable and prudent in connection with the development of our underground mines to safely manage production, there is no assurance that these risks will not cause schedule delays, revised mine plans, injuries to persons and property, or increased capital costs, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. additionally, although we devote significant time and resources to our project planning, approval and review processes, many of our development projects are highly complex and rely on factors that are outside of our control, which may cause us to underestimate the time and capital required to complete a development project. for example, we experienced mining induced seismic activity in 2017 and 2018 at the deep mill level zone (dmlz) underground mine in the grasberg minerals district. results to date of hydraulic fracturing activities to manage rock stresses and pre-condition the dmlz underground mine for large-scale production have been effective. however, we cannot predict whether additional occurrences of seismic activity or other unexpected geological activity will occur that could cause schedule delays or additional revisions to pt-fi's mine plans, which could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 45 table of contents we must continually replace reserves depleted by production but exploration is highly speculative and our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our existing mineral reserves will be depleted over time by production from our operations. because our profits are primarily derived from our mining operations, our ability to replenish our mineral reserves is essential to our long-term success. depleted reserves can be replaced in several ways, including expanding known ore bodies, by locating new deposits or acquiring interests in reserves from third parties. exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and uncertainties, requires substantial capital expenditures, and is frequently unsuccessful in discovering significant mineralization. accordingly, our current or future exploration programs may not result in the discovery of additional deposits that can be produced profitably. even if significant mineralization is discovered, it will likely take many years from the initial phases of exploration until commencement of production, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. we may not be able to discover, enhance, develop or acquire reserves in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow our current reserve levels, which could negatively affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. estimates of proven and probable reserves and mineralized material are uncertain and the volume and grade of ore actually recovered may vary from our estimates. our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves have been calculated in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange act of 1934. there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating mineral reserves. such estimates are, to a large extent, based on the average prices for the commodities we produce, primarily copper, gold and molybdenum, and interpretations of geologic data obtained from drill holes and other exploration techniques, which data may not necessarily be indicative of future results. our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. geological assumptions about our mineralization that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available. estimates of proven and probable reserves that will be recovered, or the cost at which we anticipate reserves will be recovered, are based on uncertain assumptions. the uncertain global financial outlook may affect economic assumptions related to reserve recovery and may require reserve revisions. changes to reserve estimates could affect our asset carrying values and may also negatively impact our future financial condition and results. in addition, if the market prices for the commodities we produce decline from recent levels, if production costs increase or recovery rates decrease, or if applicable laws and regulations are adversely changed, we can offer no assurance that the indicated level of recovery will be realized or that mineral reserves can be mined or processed profitably. if we determine that certain of our estimated proven and probable reserves have become uneconomic, this may ultimately lead to a reduction in our aggregate reported reserves which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, the term mineralized material does not indicate proven and probable reserves as defined by the u.s. securities and exchange commission. estimates of mineralized material are subject to further exploration and development, and are, therefore, subject to considerable uncertainty. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors and are, therefore, subject to considerable uncertainty. accordingly, no assurance can be given that the estimated mineralized material not included in reserves will become proven and probable reserves. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations, some of which require permits and other approvals. these regulations increase our costs and in some circumstances may delay or suspend our operations. our operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that are subject to change and to changing interpretation by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with broad supervisory authority. as a mining company, compliance with environmental legal requirements is an integral and costly part of our business. for additional information, see environmental risks below. we are also subject to extensive regulation of worker 46 table of contents health and safety, including the requirements of the u.s. occupational safety and health act and similar laws of other jurisdictions. in the u.s., the operation of our mines is subject to regulation by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977 (mine act). msha inspects our mines on a regular basis and issues citations and orders when it believes a violation has occurred under the mine act. additionally in the u.s. various state agencies have concurrent jurisdiction arising under state law that regulate worker health and safety in both our industrial facilities and mines. if regulatory inspections result in an alleged violation, we may be subject to fines and penalties and, in instances of alleged significant violations, our mining operations or industrial facilities could be subject to temporary or extended closures. refer to exhibit 95.1 to this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding certain orders and citations issued by msha for our operations during the year ended december 31, 2019 . many other governmental bodies regulate other aspects of our operations, and our failure to comply with these legal requirements can result in substantial penalties. in addition, new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations by courts or regulatory authorities occur regularly, but are difficult to predict. any such variations could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. our business is dependent upon information technology systems, which may be adversely affected by disruptions, damage, failure and risks associated with implementation and integration. our industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies. our strategy of operating large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets has been increasingly dependent on our ability to become fully integrated and highly automated. many of our business and operational processes are heavily dependent on traditional and emerging technology systems to conduct day-to-day operations, improve safety and efficiency, and lower costs. as our dependence on information systems, including those of our third party service providers and vendors, grows, we become more vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency and magnitude. these incidents may include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, phishing, credential attacks, unauthorized access to data and other advanced and sophisticated cybersecurity breaches and threats, including threats that increasingly target critical operational technologies and process control networks. if any of these threats materialize, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks, production downtimes, communication interruption or other disruptions and delays to our operations or to the transportation of products or infrastructure utilized by our operations, unauthorized release of proprietary, commercially sensitive, confidential or otherwise protected information, the corruption of data, significant health and safety consequences, environmental damage, loss of intellectual property, fines and litigation, damage to our reputation or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. we have experienced targeted and non-targeted cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. while these cybersecurity incidents did not result in any material loss to us or interrupt our day-to-day operations, there can be no assurance that we will not experience any such losses in the future. given the unpredictability of the timing and the evolving nature and scope of information technology disruptions, the various procedures and controls we use to monitor and protect against these threats and to mitigate our potential risks to such threats may not be sufficient in preventing cybersecurity incidents from materializing. further, as cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities to cybersecurity threats. we could also be adversely affected by system or network disruptions if new or upgraded information technology systems are defective, not installed properly or not properly integrated into our operations. various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to system implementation and modification, but system modification failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could, if not successfully implemented, adversely impact the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. in addition, from time to time, we pursue investments and initiatives to improve the productivity and efficiency of existing systems and operations, including through investments in digital technologies. during 2019, we advanced initiatives in our north america and south america mining operations to enhance productivity, expand margins and reduce the capital intensity of the business through the utilization of new technology applications in combination with a more interactive operating structure. the pilot program initiated at the bagdad mine in northwest arizona in late 2018 utilizes data science, machine learning and integrated functional teams to address bottlenecks, provide cost benefits and drive improved overall performance. there can be no certainty that some or any of such 47 table of contents investments and initiatives will meet our capital allocation objectives. in addition, certain of such investments and initiatives are still in the early stages of evaluation, and additional engineering and other analysis is required to fully assess their impact. further, there can be no certainty as to the time required for us to extract value from these investments or initiatives, or that we will achieve any anticipated savings or efficiency improvements. environmental risks our operations are subject to complex, evolving and increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations. compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain existing operations or expansion opportunities. our operations, both in the u.s. and internationally, are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations governing the generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances; solid waste disposal; air emissions; wastewater discharges; remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, including mine closures and reclamation; well plug and abandonment requirements; protection of endangered and protected species and designation of critical habitats; and other related matters. in addition, we must obtain regulatory permits and approvals to start, continue and expand operations. our miami, arizona, smelter processes approximately half of the aggregate copper concentrate produced by our north america copper mines. epa regulations required us to invest approximately $230 million in 2017 for new pollution control equipment to reduce sulfur dioxide (so 2 ) to meet both regional haze requirements and to allow the arizona department of environmental quality (adeq) to demonstrate compliance with epa's so 2 ambient air quality standards. during 2019 and january 2020, there were several instances in which the so 2 levels exceeded the ambient standard. we are engaged in discussions with adeq and conducting an ongoing investigation of the cause of the ambient levels. we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to modify our systems or install additional equipment to address findings, new requirements or for other reasons, which could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. laws such as cercla and similar state laws may expose us to joint and several liability for environmental damages caused by our operations, or by previous owners or operators of properties we acquired or are currently operating or at sites where we sent materials for processing, recycling or disposal. as discussed in more detail in the next risk factor, we have substantial obligations for environmental remediation on mining properties previously owned or operated by freeport minerals corporation (fmc) and certain of its affiliates. noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in material penalties or other liabilities. in addition, compliance with these laws may from time to time result in delays in or changes to our development or expansion plans. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. new or revised environmental regulatory requirements are frequently proposed, many of which result in substantially increased costs for our business, including those regarding financial assurance in the financial risk factor above. for example, criteria for man-made organic compounds that could be present in soil, groundwater and surface water at our existing and former operations are currently under review by federal and state agencies. in 2015, epa and the department of the army (collectively, the agencies) adopted rules that added remote tributaries into the regulatory definition of waters of the united states that are protected by the clean water act, thereby imposing significant additional restrictions on land uses in remote areas with only tenuous connections to active waterways. these rules were challenged by multiple states and industry parties and litigation is ongoing. on october 22, 2019, the agencies published a final rule that repeals these 2015 rules and recodifies the regulations in place prior to adoption of the 2015 rules. epa also published a proposed rule on february 14, 2019, which revises the definition of waters of the united states to clarify the scope of waters federally regulated under the clean water act. the final rule will become effective 60 days after it is published in the federal register. this final rule could limit or eliminate our need to obtain federal permits for future expansions at our operations in arizona and new mexico. we expect multiple legal challenges to the rule to be filed in federal district courts. regulations have been considered at various governmental levels to increase federal financial responsibility requirements both for mine closure and reclamation and for oil and gas decommissioning. in 2019, legislation was enacted in colorado that eliminates our ability to use parent company guarantees, and requires proof of an end date for water treatment as a condition of permit issuance authorizing mining operations, with some exceptions for existing operations. adoption of similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing 48 table of contents regulations may materially increase our costs, threaten certain operating activities and constrain our expansion opportunities. our mining operations are subject to regulations under the endangered species act (esa) that are intended to protect species listed by the department of interior's fish &amp; wildlife service (fws) as endangered or threatened, along with critical habitat designated by fws for these listed species. the regulations limit the ability of landowners, including us, to obtain federal permits or authorizations needed for expansion of our operations, and may also affect our ability to obtain, retain or deliver water to some operations. on august 27, 2019, fws published final rules that mitigate, but do not eliminate, potential regulatory constraints on mining operations under the esa. fws is also evaluating whether certain species should still be listed under the esa, and reconsidering critical habitat that was proposed but never finalized. environmental groups have aggressively challenged fws's regulatory reforms. no assurances can be made that restrictions relating to conservation will not have an adverse impact on expansion of our operations or not result in delays in project development, constraints on exploration and constraints on operations in impacted areas. we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations totaling $0.4 billion in both 2019 and 2018, and $0.5 billion in 2017. for 2020 , we expect to incur approximately $0.5 billion of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation and plug and abandonment activities, the settlement of environmental matters and the rate at which actual spending occurs on continuing matters. we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. fmc and its subsidiaries, and many of their affiliates and predecessor companies, have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies fully understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for remediating hazardous substances released into the environment from properties owned or operated by them as well as properties where they arranged for disposal of such substances, irrespective of when the release to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often asserted on a joint and several basis with other prior and subsequent owners, operators and arrangers, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is, and each arranger may be, held fully responsible for the remediation, although in many cases some or all of the other responsible parties no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are potentially responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2019 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects in 24 u.s. states. in addition, fmc and certain affiliates and predecessor companies were parties to agreements relating to the transfer of businesses or properties that contained indemnification provisions relating to environmental matters, and from time to time these provisions become the source of claims against us. at december 31, 2019 , we had $1.6 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributable to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of operating facilities. 49 table of contents our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases occurred many decades ago; our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. in addition, remediation standards imposed by epa and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time and may become even more stringent in the future. imposition of more stringent remediation standards, particularly for arsenic and lead in soils, poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at our active remediation sites and at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. epa is considering how to reduce lead exposure in the environment under multiple environmental programs. certain federal and state health agencies also support lower lead cleanup levels. the timing for these epa activities is unclear, but any reduction in lead cleanup levels could result in material increases to our environmental reserves for ongoing residential property cleanup projects near former smelter sites. refer to note 12 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. in 2019, pt-fi produced approximately 39 million metric tons of tailings. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesia government, uses the unnavigable river system in the highlands near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. in addition, certain overburden stockpiles are subject to erosion caused by the large amounts of rainfall, with the eroded stockpile material eventually being deposited in the lowlands tailings management area; this additional material influences the deposition of finer sediment material in the estuary, as well as presents the potential for increased environmental impacts. the grasberg overburden stockpiles have experienced significant erosion , exacerbated by unanticipated work stoppages that adversely affected our ability to manage certain overburden stockpiles, which may have resulted in adverse environmental impacts. the current tailings deposition management plan as well as environmental monitoring programs take into account the presence of this overburden in the lowlands tailings management area. as part of this effort, pt-fi has expanded the scope of its studies and analysis to assess the environmental impacts from the overburden erosion, including conducting risk assessments to determine whether any such impacts require additional monitoring or mitigation measures, which would result in increased costs. 50 table of contents in the past, certain indonesia government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than the river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. we cannot guarantee that we will not have overtopping or levee failure caused by extreme weather events or unanticipated structural failure in the future, which could result in flooding of the nearby communities. if flooding were to occur, it could result in loss of lives, severe personal, property and environmental damages, which could necessitate evacuation or relocation of communities or other emergency action, financial assistance to the communities impacted, remediation costs to repair and compensate for the social, cultural and economic impacts. in december 2018, indonesia's ministry of environment and forestry (the moef) issued a revised environmental permit to pt-fi to address many of the operational activities that it alleged were inconsistent with earlier studies. pt-fi and the moef also established a new framework for continuous improvement in environmental practices in pt-fi's operations, including initiatives that pt-fi will pursue to increase tailings retention and to evaluate large scale beneficial uses of tailings within indonesia. in addition, pt-fi continues to work with moef to finalize environmental permitting related to the rail facilities and certain of the underground mining production operations as well as permitting for the extension of levees to contain the lateral flow of tailings in the lowlands. refer to note 12 for further discussion. we cannot assure you that future environmental changes affecting the mining industry in indonesia will not be introduced or unexpectedly altered or repealed, or that new interpretations of existing environmental laws and regulations will not be issued, which might have a significant impact on pt-fi. our copper mining operations require significant energy and regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented approximately 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2019 , and is expected to approximate 20 percent in 2020 . carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, although haul truck diesel use and the amount of purchased power that is derived from fossil fuel or renewable sources varies significantly depending on site production and country-specific circumstances. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. as a result of the paris agreement reached during the 21 st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in 2015, a number of governments have pledged nationally determined contributions to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in the u.s., several states, including colorado and new mexico, have advanced goals reducing or eliminating fossil-fuel based energy production. the administration of president trump has announced the intention of the u.s. to withdraw from the paris agreement, which begins a lengthy process that will not be completed until november 2020. transitions to renewable and other energy sources could, among other things, increase our operating and energy costs depending on the scope and magnitude of increased regulation of fossil-fuel based energy production, including greenhouse gas emissions. other risks our holding company structure may impact our ability to service debt and our stockholders ' ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock and intercompany receivables of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. cash at our international operations is also typically subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. 51 table of contents in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us or repay loans to us, to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are parties to credit agreements that restrict their ability to make distributions or loan repayments to us if such subsidiary is in default under such agreements, or to transfer substantially all of the assets of such subsidiary without the consent of the lenders. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize the board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the board. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to our stockholders.