risk factors 22 risk factors we face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. while we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. also, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we may face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently do not consider significant, could also potentially impair, and have a material adverse effect on, our business, results of operations and financial condition. our business is highly dependent on sales volume. global vehicle sales have declined significantly from their peak levels and there is no assurance that the global automobile market will recover in the near future or that it will not suffer a significant further downturn. our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, as demonstrated by the effect of sharp declines in vehicle sales in the u.s. since 2007 and globally since 2008 on our business. vehicle sales in the u.s. have fallen significantly on an annualized basis since their peak in 2007, and sales globally have shown steep declines on an annualized basis since their peak in january 2008. the deteriorating economic and market conditions that have driven the drop in vehicle sales, including declines in real estate and equity values, rising unemployment, tightened credit markets, depressed consumer confidence and weak housing markets, may not improve significantly during 2010 and may continue past 2010 and could deteriorate further. although vehicle sales began to recover in the last quarter of 2009 and we expect that they will continue to recover in 2010, there is no assurance that any recovery in vehicle sales will continue. further, sales volumes may decline more severely or take longer to recover than we expect, and if they do, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. our ability to attract a sufficient number of consumers to consider our vehicles particularly our new products, including cars and crossover vehicles, is essential. our ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to entice consumers to consider our products when purchasing a new vehicle. the automotive industry, particularly in the u.s., is very competitive and our competitors have been very successful in persuading customers that previously purchased our products to purchase their vehicles instead as is reflected by our loss of market 22 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries share over the past three years. we believe that this is due, in part, to a negative public perception of our products in relation to those of some of our competitors. changing this perception will be critical. if we are unable to change public perception of our company and products, particularly our new products, including cars and crossovers, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our continued ability to achieve cost reductions and to realize production efficiencies for our automotive operations is critical to our ability to return to profitability. we are continuing to implement a number of cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives in our automotive operations, including substantial restructuring initiatives for our north american operations. our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations, especially in north america. in addition, while some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our structural costs. reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety, and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase. the ability of our new executive management team to quickly learn the automotive industry and lead our company will be critical to our ability to succeed. during the last six months we have substantially changed our executive management team. we have appointed a new chief executive officer and a new chief financial officer, both of whom have no outside automotive industry experience. we have also promoted from within many new senior officers in areas ranging from marketing to engineering. it is important to our success that the new members of the executive management team quickly understand the automotive industry and that our senior officers quickly adapt and excel in their new senior management roles. if they are unable to do so, and as a result are unable to provide effective guidance and leadership, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. failure of our suppliers, due to difficult economic conditions affecting our industry, to provide us with the systems, components and parts that we need to manufacture our automotive products and operate our business could result in a disruption in our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. we rely on many suppliers to provide us with the systems, components and parts that we need to manufacture our automotive products and operate our business. in recent years, a number of these suppliers have experienced severe financial difficulties and solvency problems, and some have sought relief under the bankruptcy code or similar reorganization laws. this trend intensified in 2009 due to the combination of general economic weakness, sharply declining vehicle sales and tightened credit availability that has affected the automotive industry generally. suppliers may encounter difficulties in obtaining credit or may receive an opinion from their independent public accountants regarding their financial statements that includes a statement expressing substantial doubt about their ability to continue as a going concern, which could trigger defaults under their financings or other agreements or impede their ability to raise new funds. when comparable situations have occurred in the past, suppliers have attempted to increase their prices, pass through increased costs, alter payment terms or seek other relief. in instances where suppliers have not been able to generate sufficient additional revenues or obtain the additional financing they need to continue their operations, either through private sources or government funding, which may not be available, some have been forced to reduce their output, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection. such actions would likely increase our costs, create challenges to meeting our quality objectives and in some cases make it difficult for us to continue production of certain vehicles. to the extent we take steps in such cases to help key suppliers remain in business, our liquidity would be adversely affected. it may also be difficult to find a replacement for certain suppliers without significant delay. 23 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of raw materials could materially harm our business. we use various raw materials in our business including steel, non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and copper and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. the prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. in recent years, freight charges and raw material costs increased significantly. substantial increases in the prices for our raw materials increase our operating costs and could reduce our profitability if we cannot recoup the increased costs through vehicle prices. in addition, some of these raw materials, such as corrosion-resistant steel, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. an increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, which may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as labor strikes, could negatively affect our net revenues and profitability to a material extent. the pace of introduction and market acceptance of new vehicles is important to our success and the frequency of new vehicle introductions may be materially adversely affected by reductions in capital expenditures. our competitors have introduced new and improved vehicle models designed to meet consumer expectations, and will continue to do so. our profit margins, sales volumes and market shares may decrease if we are unable to produce models that compare favorably to these competing models. if we are unable to produce new and improved vehicle models on a basis competitive with the models introduced by our competitors, demand for our vehicles may be materially adversely affected. further, the pace of our development and introduction of new and improved vehicles depends on our ability to successfully implement improved technological innovations in design, engineering and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment. any capital expenditure cuts in this area that we may determine to implement in the future to reduce costs and conserve cash could reduce our ability to develop and implement improved technological innovations, which may materially reduce demand for our vehicles. inadequate cash flow could materially adversely affect our business operations in the future. we will require substantial liquidity to implement long-term cost savings and restructuring plans, satisfy our obligations under the ust credit agreement, continue capital spending to support product programs and development of advanced technologies, and meet scheduled term debt and lease maturities, in each case as contemplated by our business plan. if our cash levels approach the minimum cash levels necessary to support our normal business operations, we may be forced to borrow additional funds at rates that may not be favorable, curtail capital spending, and reduce research and development and other programs that are important to the future success of our business. if this were to happen, our need for cash would be intensified. although we believe that the funding we received in connection with our formation and our purchase of substantially all of mlc assets provides us with sufficient liquidity to operate our business in the near-term, our ability to maintain adequate liquidity in the medium- and long-term will depend significantly on the volume, mix and quality of vehicle sales and the continuing curtailment of operating expenses. our liquidity needs are sensitive to changes in each of these and other factors. as part of our business plan, we have reduced compensation for our most highly paid executives and have reduced the number of our management and non-management salaried employees, and these actions may materially adversely affect our ability to hire and retain salaried employees. as part of the cost reduction initiatives in our business plan, and pursuant to the direction of the special master for tarp executive compensation we have imposed salary reductions on our most highly paid executives, and reduced benefits to a level that we believe is significantly lower than offered by other major corporations. furthermore, the ust credit agreement restricts the compensation that we can provide to our top executives and prohibits certain types of compensation or benefits for any employees. at the same time, we have substantially decreased the number of salaried employees so that the workload is shared among fewer employees and in general the demands on each salaried employee are increased. companies in similar situations have experienced significant difficulties in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees, particularly in competitive specialties. given our compensation structure and increasing job demands, there is no assurance that we will be able to hire and retain the employees whose expertise is required to execute our business plan while at the same time developing and producing vehicles that will stimulate demand for our products. 24 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our plan to reduce the number of our retail channels and core brands and to consolidate our dealer network is likely to reduce our total sales volume, may not create the cost savings we anticipate and is likely to result in restructuring costs that may materially adversely affect our results of operations. as part of our business plan, we will focus our resources in the u.s. on our four core brands: chevrolet, cadillac, buick and gmc. we completed the sale of saab in february 2010, and the current business plan also provides for the resolution of hummer in 2010. in conjunction with these brand eliminations, there is no planned investment for pontiac, and therefore the brand will be phased out by the end of 2010. we will also be winding down the saturn brand and dealership networks in accordance with the deferred termination agreements that saturn dealers have signed with us. we also intend to consolidate our dealer network by reducing the total number of our u.s. dealers to approximately 3,600 to 4,000 in the long term. we anticipate that this reduction in retail outlets, core brands and dealers will result in costs savings over time, but there is no assurance that we would realize the savings expected. based on our experience and the experiences of other companies that have eliminated brands, models and/or dealers, we believe that our market share could decline because of these reductions. in addition, executing the phase-out of retail channels and brands and the reduction in the number of our dealers will require us to terminate established business relationships. there is no assurance that we will be able to terminate all of these relationships, and if we are not able to terminate substantially all of these relationships we would not be able to achieve all of the benefits we have targeted. in december 2009 president obama signed legislation giving dealers access to neutral arbitration should they decide to contest the wind-down of their dealership. under the terms of the legislation we have informed dealers as to why their dealership received a wind-down agreement. in turn, dealers were given a timeframe to file for reinstatement through the american arbitration association. under the law, decisions in these arbitration proceedings must generally be made by june 2010 and are binding and final. we have sent letters to over 2,000 of our dealers explaining the reasons for their wind-down agreements and over 1,100 dealers have filed for arbitration. in response to the arbitration filings we reviewed each of the dealer reinstatement claims filed with the american arbitration association. our review resulted in over 600 letters of intent sent to dealers, which upon compliance by the dealer, would result in reinstatement of the dealership. we anticipate that negotiating these terminations on an individual basis through binding arbitration will require considerable time and expense and we would be required to comply with a variety of national and state franchise laws, which will limit our flexibility and increase our costs. given the pendency of the arbitration process and the anticipated cost of negotiating terminations on an individual basis if dealers are granted reinstatement it is impossible for us to know at this point how many dealers will be in our network long-term or the cost of restructuring our dealership network. our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various european countries, but we may not succeed in doing so, and that could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various european countries and we are actively working to accomplish this. we continue to work towards a restructuring of our german and certain other european operations. we are engaging in discussions with certain european governments regarding financial support for our european operations. we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully complete any of these restructurings. in addition, restructurings, whether or not ultimately successful, can involve significant expense and disruption to the business as well as labor disruptions, which can adversely affect the business. moreover, our decision to restructure our european operations could require us to invest significant additional funds particularly if we are unable to obtain financial support from european governments. we cannot assure you that any of our contemplated restructurings will be completed or achieve the desired results, and if we cannot successfully complete such restructurings out of court, we may seek to, or the directors of the relevant entity may be compelled to, or creditors may force us to, seek relief under applicable local bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency or similar laws, where we may lose control over the outcome of the restructuring process due to the appointment of a local receiver, trustee or administrator (or similar official) or otherwise and which could result in a liquidation and us losing all or a substantial part of our interest in the business. continued limited availability of adequate financing on acceptable terms through gmac or other sources to our customers and dealers, distributors and suppliers to enable them to continue their business relationships with us could materially adversely affect our business. our customers and dealers require financing to purchase a significant percentage of our global vehicle sales. historically, gmac has provided most of the financing for our dealers and a significant amount of financing for our customers. due to conditions in credit markets particularly later in 2008, retail customers and dealers have experienced severe difficulty in accessing the credit markets. as a 25 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries result, the number of vehicles sold or leased declined rapidly in the second half of 2008, with lease contract volume dropping significantly by the end of 2008. this had a significant effect on old gm vehicle sales overall, since many of its competitors have captive finance subsidiaries that were better capitalized than gmac during 2008 and 2009 and thus were able to offer consumers subsidized financing and leasing offers. similarly, the reduced availability of gmac wholesale dealer financing (particularly in the second half of 2008), the increased cost of such financing and a limited availability of other sources of dealer financing due to the general weakness of the credit market, has caused and may continue to cause dealers to modify their plans to purchase vehicles from us. because of recent modifications to our commercial agreements with gmac, gmac no longer is subject to contractual wholesale funding commitments or retail underwriting targets. therefore, there can be no assurance that gmac will continue to provide adequate funding at competitive rates to ensure that financing for purchases of our vehicles by our dealers and customers will be consistent with the funding levels and competitive rates that have historically been available from gmac. the ust (or its designee) owns a controlling interest in us and its interests may differ from those of our other stockholders. the ust beneficially owns a majority of our common stock on a fully diluted basis. as a result of its majority stock ownership interest and its role as a significant lender to us, the ust is able to exercise significant influence and control over our business if it elects to do so. this includes the ability to have significant influence and control over matters brought for a shareholder vote. to the extent the ust elects to exercise such influence or control over us, its interests (as a government entity) may differ from those of our other stockholders and it may influence matters including: the selection and tenure and compensation of our management; our business strategy and product offerings; our relationship with our employees, unions and other constituencies; and our financing activities, including the issuance of debt and equity securities. in the future we may also become subject to new and additional laws and government regulations regarding various aspects of our business as a result of participation in the tarp program and the u.s. government ownership in (and financing of) our business. these regulations could make it more difficult for us to compete with other companies that are not subject to similar regulations. refer to directors, executive officers and corporate governance stockholders agreement for further information. the ust credit agreement and veba note agreement contain significant representations and affirmative and negative covenants that may restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take actions management believes are important to our long-term strategy. the ust credit agreement and veba note agreement contain representations and warranties, affirmative covenants requiring us to take certain actions and negative covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions. the affirmative covenants impose obligations on us with respect to, among other things, financial and other reporting to the ust (including periodic confirmation of compliance with certain expense policies and executive privileges and compensation requirements), use of proceeds of asset sales, maintenance of facility collateral and other property, payment of obligations, compliance with various restrictions on executive privileges and compensation and compliance with a corporate expense policy. the negative covenants in the ust credit agreement generally apply to us and our u.s. subsidiaries that provided guarantees of our obligations under that agreement and restrict us with respect to, among other things, granting liens, distributions on capital stock, amendments or waivers of certain documents and entering into new indebtedness. compliance with the representations, warranties and affirmative and negative covenants contained in the ust credit agreement and veba note agreement could restrict our ability to take actions that management believes are important to our long-term 26 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries strategy. if strategic transactions we wish to undertake are prohibited or inconsistent with, or detrimental to, our long-term viability, our ability to execute our long-term strategy could be materially adversely affected. in addition, monitoring and certifying our compliance with the ust credit agreement and veba note agreement requires a high level of expense and management attention on a continuing basis. even though we have made significant modifications to our obligations to the new veba, we are still obligated to contribute a significant amount of cash to fund the new veba in the future and cumulative dividends on the series a preferred stock must be paid prior to any dividends or distributions to common stockholders. even though we have made significant modifications to our obligations to the new veba, we are still required to contribute a significant amount of cash to the new veba over a period of years. the amounts payable to the new veba include: (1) dividends payable on the 260 million shares of series a preferred stock issued to the new veba in connection with the closing of the 363 sale, which have a liquidation preference of $25.00 per share and accrue cumulative dividends at a rate equal to 9.0% per annum (payable quarterly on march 15, june 15, september 15 and december 15) if, as and when declared by our board of directors (the ust and canada holdings hold an additional 100 million shares of series a preferred stock); and (2) payments on the veba notes in three equal installments of $1.4 billion on july 15, 2013, 2015 and 2017. on or after december 31, 2014, we may redeem, in whole or in part, the shares of series a preferred stock at the time outstanding, at a redemption price per share equal to the sum of: (1) $25.00 per share; and (2) subject to limited exceptions, any accrued and unpaid dividends. there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain all of the necessary funding to fund our existing veba payment obligations on terms that will be acceptable to us. if we are unable to obtain funding from internal or external sources or some combination thereof on terms that are consistent with our business plan, we would have to delay, reduce or cancel other planned expenditures. our pension funding obligations may increase significantly due to weak performance of financial markets and its effect on plan assets. our future funding obligations for our u.s. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the irs depends upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. due to old gm contributions to the plans and to the strong performance of these assets during prior periods, the u.s. hourly and salaried pension plans were consistently overfunded from 2005 through 2007, which allowed old gm to maintain a surplus without making additional contributions to the plans. however, due to significant declines in financial markets and a deterioration in the value of our plan assets, as well as the coverage of additional retirees, including certain delphi hourly employees, we may need to make significant contributions to our u.s. pension plans in 2013 and beyond. there is no assurance that interest rates will remain constant or that our pension fund assets can earn our assumed rate of 8.5% annually, and our actual experience may be significantly more negative. if the market values of the assets held by our pension plans decline, our pension expenses would increase and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our financial position. decreases in interest rates that are not offset by contributions and asset returns could also increase our obligations under such plans. in addition, if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our pension plans outside the u.s., we could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow. despite the formation of our new company, we continue to have indebtedness and other obligations. our debt obligations together with our cash needs may require us to seek additional financing, minimize capital expenditures or seek to refinance some or all of our debt. despite the formation of our new company, we continue to have indebtedness and other obligations. our current and future indebtedness and other obligations could have several important consequences. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations than we currently do to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and other obligations, which will reduce the funds available for other purposes such as product development; 27 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; make us more vulnerable to any continuing downturn in general economic conditions and adverse developments in our business; and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. future liquidity needs may require us to seek additional financing, or minimize capital expenditures. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us on satisfactory terms or on terms that would not require us to renegotiate the terms and conditions of our existing debt agreements. our planned investment in new technology in the future is significant and may not be funded at anticipated levels, and, even if funded at anticipated levels, may not result in successful vehicle applications. we intend to invest significant capital resources to support our products and to develop new technology. in addition, we are committed to invest heavily in alternative fuel and advanced propulsion technologies between 2010 and 2012, largely to support our planned expansion of hybrid and electric vehicles, consistent with our announced objective of being recognized as the industry leader in fuel efficiency. moreover, if our future operations do not provide us with the liquidity we anticipate, we may be forced to reduce, delay or cancel our planned investments in new technology. in some cases, the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. for example, we have announced that we intend to produce by november 2010 the chevrolet volt, an electric car, which requires battery technology that has not yet proven to be commercially viable. there can be no assurance that these advances will occur in a timely or feasible way, that the funds that we have budgeted for these purposes will be adequate or that we will be able to establish our right to these technologies. moreover, our competitors and others are pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies, in some cases with more money available, and there can be no assurance that they will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. new laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations regarding increased fuel economy requirements and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant effect on how we do business. we are affected significantly by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. we anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the costs and changes to our product lineup to comply with them, will increase significantly in the future. in the u.s. and europe, for example, governmental regulation is primarily driven by concerns about the environment (including greenhouse gas emissions), vehicle safety, fuel economy and energy security. these government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and may result in substantial costs including civil penalties. they may also result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. cafe provisions in the eisa mandate fuel economy standards beginning in the 2011 model year that would increase to at least 35 mpg by 2020 on a combined car and truck fleet basis, a 40% increase over current levels. in addition, california is implementing a program to regulate vehicle greenhouse gas emissions (ab 1493 rules), and therefore will require increased fuel economy. this california program has standards currently established for the 2009 model year through the 2016 model year. thirteen additional states and the province of quebec have also adopted the california greenhouse gas standards. 28 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries on may 19, 2009 president obama announced his intention for the federal government to implement a harmonized federal program to regulate fuel economy and greenhouse gases. he directed the epa and the u.s. department of transportation (dot) to work together to create standards through a joint rulemaking for control of emissions of greenhouse gases and for fuel economy. in the first phase, these standards would apply to passenger cars, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles built in model years 2012 through 2016. the carb has agreed that compliance with epa greenhouse gas standards will be deemed compliance with the california greenhouse gas standards for the 2012 through 2016 model years. epa and dot issued their final rule to implement this new federal program on april 1, 2010. we have committed to work with epa, the dot, the states and other stakeholders in support of a strong national program to reduce oil consumption and address global climate change. we are committed to meeting or exceeding these regulatory requirements, and our product plan of record projects compliance with the anticipated federal program through the 2016 model year. we expect that to comply with these standards we will be required to sell a significant volume of hybrid or electrically powered vehicles throughout the u.s., as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. there is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies at a competitive price, or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. in addition, the eu passed legislation in december 2008 to begin regulating vehicle carbon dioxide emissions beginning in 2012. the legislation sets a target of a fleet average of 95 grams per kilometer for 2020, with the requirements for each manufacturer based on the weight of the vehicles it sells. additional measures have been proposed or adopted in europe to regulate features such as tire rolling resistance, vehicle air conditioners, tire pressure monitors, gear shift indicators and others. at the national level, 16 eu member states have adopted some form of carbon dioxide-based vehicle taxation system, which could result in specific market requirements for us to introduce technology earlier than is required for compliance with the eu emissions standards. other governments around the world, such as canada, south korea and china, are also creating new policies to address these same societal issues. as in the u.s., these government policies could significantly affect our plans for product development. due to these regulations we could be subject to sizable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. additionally, the regulations will result in substantial costs, which could be difficult to pass through to our customers, and could result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which could affect our operations, including facility closings, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue. we may be unable to qualify for federal funding for our advanced technology vehicle programs under section 136 of the eisa or may not be selected to participate in the program. the u.s. congress provided the doe with $25.0 billion in funding to make direct loans to eligible applicants for the costs of re-equipping, expanding, and establishing manufacturing facilities in the u.s. to produce advanced technology vehicles and components for these vehicles. old gm submitted three applications for section 136 loans aggregating $10.3 billion to support its advanced technology vehicle programs prior to july 2009. based on the findings of the president designee under the u.s. treasury loan agreement in march 2009, the doe determined that old gm did not meet the viability requirements for section 136 loans. on july 10, 2009 we purchased certain assets of old gm pursuant to section 363 of the bankruptcy code, including the rights to the loan applications submitted to the advanced technology vehicle manufacturing incentive program (atvmip). further, we submitted a fourth application in august 2009. subsequently, the doe advised us to resubmit a consolidated application including all the four applications submitted earlier and also the electric power steering project acquired from delphi in october 2009. we submitted the consolidated application in october 2009, which requested an aggregate amount of $14.4 billion of section 136 loans. ongoing product portfolio updates and project modifications requested from the doe have the potential to reduce the maximum loan amount. to date, the doe has announced that it would provide approximately $8.3 billion in section 136 loans to ford motor company, nissan motor company, tesla motors, inc., fisker automotive, inc., and tenneco inc. there can be no assurance that we will qualify for any remaining loans or receive any such loans even if we qualify. 29 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. many of our operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as shanghai gm. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be materially adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. shortages of and volatility in the price of oil have caused and may continue to cause diminished profitability due to shifts in consumer vehicle demand. volatile oil prices in 2008 and 2009 contributed to weaker demand for some of old gm and our higher margin vehicles, especially our fullsize sport utility vehicles, as consumer demand shifted to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins and in recent years represented a smaller proportion of old gm and our sales volume in north america. fullsize pick-up trucks, which are generally less fuel efficient than smaller vehicles, represented a higher percentage of old gm and our north american sales during 2008 and 2009 compared to the total industry average percentage of fullsize pick-up truck sales in those periods. demand for traditional sport utility vehicles and vans also declined during the same periods. any future increases in the price of oil in the u.s. or in our other markets or any sustained shortage of oil could further weaken the demand for such vehicles, which could reduce our market share in affected markets, decrease profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business. we could be materially adversely affected by changes or imbalances in foreign currency exchange and other rates. because we sell products and buy materials globally over a significant period of time, we are exposed to risks related to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates, which can have material adverse effects on our business. in recent years, the relative weakness of certain currencies, including the japanese yen, has provided competitive advantages to certain of our competitors. while in recent months the japanese yen has strengthened significantly, its weakness in recent years has provided pricing advantages for vehicles and parts imported from japan to markets with more robust currencies like the u.s. and western europe. moreover, the relative strength of other currencies has negatively affected our business. for example, before the current financial crisis, the relative weakness of the british pound compared to the euro has had an adverse effect on our results of operations in europe. in addition, in preparing our consolidated financial statements we translate our revenues and expenses outside the u.s. into u.s. dollars using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the period and the assets and liabilities using the foreign currency exchange rate at the balance sheet date. as a result, foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. our businesses outside the u.s. expose us to additional risks that may materially adversely affect our business. the majority of our vehicle sales are generated outside the u.s. we are pursuing growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the u.s. operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including: foreign regulations restricting our ability to sell our products in those countries; differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety; differing labor regulations and union relationships; consequences from changes in tax laws; 30 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism. the effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business. new laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations regarding safety standards, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant negative effect on how we do business. our products must satisfy legal safety requirements. meeting or exceeding government-mandated safety standards is difficult and costly, because crashworthiness standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. while we are managing our product development and production operations on a global basis to reduce costs and lead times, unique national or regional standards or vehicle rating programs can result in additional costs for product development, testing and manufacturing. governments often require the implementation of new requirements during the middle of a product cycle, which can be substantially more expensive than accommodating these requirements during the design of a new product. the costs and effect on our reputation of product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. from time to time, we recall our products to address performance, compliance or safety-related issues. the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. in addition, product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. any costs incurred or lost sales caused by future product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. conversely, not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above. we have determined that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting are currently not effective. the lack of effective internal controls could materially adversely affect our financial condition and ability to carry out our business plan. as discussed in item 9a, controls and procedures , our management team for financial reporting, under the supervision and with the participation of our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. at december 31, 2009, because of the inability to sufficiently test the effectiveness of remediated internal controls, they concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were not effective. until we have been able to test the operating effectiveness of remediated internal controls, and ensure the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, it may materially adversely affect our ability to report accurately our financial condition and results of operations in the future in a timely and reliable manner. in addition, although we continually review and evaluate internal control systems to allow management to report on the sufficiency of our internal controls, we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. any such additional weakness or failure to remediate the existing weakness could adversely affect our financial condition or ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and the requirements of the company various financing agreements. * * * * * * * quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 117 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk old gm entered into a variety of foreign currency exchange, interest rate and commodity forward contracts and options to manage exposures arising from market risks resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. we are also subject to these market risks. we do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative or trading purposes. the overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the risk management committee, which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. a risk management control system is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions, in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the risk management committee. a discussion of our and old gm accounting policies for derivative financial instruments is included in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. further information on our exposure to market risk is included in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. in 2008 credit market volatility increased significantly, creating broad credit concerns. in addition, old gm credit standing and liquidity position in the first half of 2009 and the chapter 11 proceedings severely limited its ability to manage risks using derivative financial instruments as most derivative counterparties were unwilling to enter into transactions with old gm. subsequent to the 363 sale and through december 31, 2009, we remain unable to enter into forward contracts pending the completion of negotiations with potential derivative counterparties. these negotiations include amendments to existing agreements and entering into new agreements that will likely require that we provide cash to collateralize our net liability positions. in accordance with the provisions of asc 820-10, fair value measurements and disclosures, which requires companies to consider nonperformance risk as part of the measurement of fair value of derivative liabilities, we record changes in the fair value of our derivative liabilities based on our current credit standing. at december 31, 2009 the fair value of derivatives in a net liability position was $680 million. the following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk and equity price risk. sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. the models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity prices. for options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect of market shifts. there are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rates and commodity prices change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency pairs, or offsetting long-short positions in currency pairs which may reduce the potential loss in value. foreign currency exchange rate risk we have and old gm had foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of our and old gm operations. derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2009 such contracts have remaining maturities of up to 20 months. at december 31, 2009 our three most significant foreign currency exposures were the u.s. dollar/korean won, euro/british pound and euro/korean won. at december 31, 2009 and 2008 the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $5.9 billion and $6.3 billion. this presentation utilizes a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and excludes the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% parallel shift in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be $0.9 billion and $2.3 billion at december 31, 2009 and 2008. 117 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries we are and old gm was also exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation of the results of international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our and old gm financial position. the effect of foreign currency exchange rate translation on our consolidated financial position was a net translation gain of $157 million in the period july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009. the effect of foreign currency exchange rate translation on old gm consolidated financial position was a net translation gain of $232 million in the period january 1, 2009 through july 9, 2009 and a net translation loss of $1.2 billion in the year ended 2008. these gains and losses were recorded as an adjustment to total stockholders equity (deficit) through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the effects of foreign currency exchange rate transactions were a loss of $755 million in the period july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009, a loss of $1.1 billion in the period january 1, 2009 through july 9, 2009 and a gain of $1.7 billion in the year ended 2008. interest rate risk we are and old gm was subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates due to financing activities. interest rate risk in old gm was managed primarily with interest rate swaps. the interest rate swaps old gm entered into usually involved the exchange of fixed for variable rate interest payments to effectively convert fixed rate debt into variable rate debt in order to achieve a target range of variable rate debt. at december 31, 2009 we did not have any interest rate swap derivative positions to manage interest rate exposures. at december 31, 2009 we had fixed rate short-term debt of $592 million and variable rate short-term debt of $9.6 billion. of this fixed rate short-term debt, $232 million was denominated in u.s. dollars and $360 million was denominated in foreign currencies. of the variable rate short-term debt, $6.2 billion was denominated in u.s. dollars and $3.4 billion was denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2009 we had fixed rate long-term debt of $4.7 billion and variable rate long-term debt of $873 million. of this fixed rate long-term debt, $3.4 billion was denominated in u.s. dollars and $1.3 billion was denominated in foreign currencies. of the variable rate long-term debt, $551 million was denominated in u.s. dollars and $322 million was denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2009 and 2008 the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk was $16.0 billion and $17.0 billion. the potential increase in fair value at december 31, 2009 resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would be $402 million. the potential increase in fair value at december 31, 2008 resulting from a 10 percentage point increase in quoted interest rates would have been $3.6 billion. commodity price risk we are and old gm was exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in the automotive business, primarily associated with various non-ferrous and precious metals for automotive components and energy used in the overall manufacturing process. certain commodity purchase contracts meet the definition of a derivative. old gm entered into various derivatives, such as commodity swaps and options, to offset its commodity price exposures. we resumed old gm commodity hedging program using options in december 2009. at december 31, 2009 and 2008 the net fair value asset (liability) of commodity derivatives was $11 million and ($553) million. the potential loss in fair value resulting from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices would be $6 million and $109 million at december 31, 2009 and 2008. this amount excludes the offsetting effect of the commodity price risk inherent in the physical purchase of the underlying commodities. equity price risk we are and old gm was exposed to changes in prices of equity securities held. we typically do not attempt to reduce our market exposure to these equity instruments. our exposure includes certain investments we hold in warrants of other companies. at 118 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries december 31, 2009 the fair value of these warrants was $25 million. our exposure also includes investments of $32 million in equity securities classified as trading. at december 31, 2008 old gm had investments of $24 million in equity securities classified as available-for-sale. these amounts represent the maximum exposure to loss from these investments. at december 31, 2009 the carrying amount of cost method investments was $1.7 billion, of which the carrying amounts of our investments in gmac common stock and gmac preferred stock were $970 million and $665 million. at december 31, 2008 the carrying amount of cost method investments was $98 million, of which the carrying amount of the investment in gmac preferred membership interests was $43 million. these amounts represent the maximum exposure to loss from these investments. on june 30, 2009 gmac converted its status to a c corporation and, as a result, our equity ownership in gmac was converted from membership interests to shares of capital stock. also, on june 30, 2009 old gm began to account for its investment in gmac common stock as a cost method investment. on july 10, 2009 in connection with our application of fresh-start reporting, we recorded an increase of $1.3 billion and $629 million to the carrying amounts of our investments in gmac common stock and gmac preferred stock to reflect their estimated fair value of $1.3 billion and $665 million. in the period july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009 we recorded impairment charges of $270 million related to our investment in gmac common stock and $4 million related to other cost method investments. in the year ended 2008 old gm recorded impairment charges of $1.0 billion related to its investment in gmac preferred membership interests. counterparty risk we are exposed to counterparty risk, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty to a derivative contract defaulted. we enter into agreements with counterparties that allow the set-off of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. at december 31, 2009 our counterparty risk exposure is related to derivative contracts we use to manage exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk and commodity prices. our counterparty risk is managed by our risk management committee, which establishes exposure limits by counterparty. we monitor and report our exposures to the risk management committee and our treasurer on a periodic basis. at december 31, 2009 substantially all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated a or higher. concentration of credit risk we are exposed to concentration of credit risk primarily through holding cash and cash equivalents (which include money market funds), short- and long-term investments and derivatives. as part of our risk management process, we monitor and evaluate the credit standing of the financial institutions with which we do business. the financial institutions with which we do business are generally highly rated and geographically dispersed. we are exposed to risk related to the potential inability to access liquidity in money market funds we invested in if the funds were to deny redemption requests. as part of our risk management process, we invest in large funds that are managed by reputable financial institutions. we also follow investment guidelines to limit our exposure to individual funds and financial institutions. * * * * * * * 119 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2009, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in management report on internal control over financial reporting in item 9a. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on that risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. a material weakness related to ineffective controls over the period-end financial reporting process has been identified and included in management assessment. this material weakness was considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the consolidated balance sheet of general motors company and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2009 (successor) and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and equity (deficit) for the period july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009 (successor) and the period january 1, 2009 through july 9, 2009 (predecessor). our audit also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at item 15. this report does not affect our report on such financial statements and financial statement schedule. in our opinion, because of the effect of the material weakness identified above on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, the company has not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of general motors company and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2009 (successor) and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and equity (deficit) for the period july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009 (successor) and the period january 1, 2009 through july 9, 2009 (predecessor). our audit also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at item 15. our report dated april 7, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule and included explanatory paragraphs relating to (a) the successor acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumption of certain liabilities of the predecessor in accordance with the amended and restated master sale and purchase agreement pursuant to section 363(b) of the bankruptcy code and the bankruptcy court sale order dated july 5, 2009 and the application of fresh-start reporting, which resulted in a lack of comparability between the financial statements of the successor and predecessor; and (b) the predecessor adoption of new or revised accounting standards. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan april 7, 2010 120 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of general motors company and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2009 (successor) and general motors corporation and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2008 (predecessor), and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and equity (deficit) for the period july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009 (successor), the period january 1, 2009 through july 9, 2009 (predecessor) and each of the two years in the period ended december 31, 2008 (predecessor) (successor and predecessor collectively, the company). our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at item 15. these financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the company management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of general motors company and subsidiaries at december 31, 2009 (successor) and general motors corporation and subsidiaries at december 31, 2008 (predecessor), and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the period july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009 (successor), the period january 1, 2009 through july 9, 2009 (predecessor) and each of the two years in the period ended december 31, 2008 (predecessor), in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, on july 10, 2009 the successor completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of the predecessor in accordance with the amended and restated master sale and purchase agreement pursuant to section 363(b) of the bankruptcy code and the bankruptcy court sale order dated july 5, 2009. accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards codification (asc) topic 852, reorganizations . the successor applied fresh-start reporting and recognized the acquired net assets at fair value, resulting in a lack of comparability with the prior period financial statements of the predecessor. as discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the predecessor adopted asc topic 820-10, fair value measurements and disclosures , effective january 1, 2008 and adopted amendments to asc topic 805, business combinations , effective january 1, 2009. in addition, on january 1, 2009, the predecessor retrospectively adjusted the consolidated financial statements for all prior periods presented for the adoption of amendments to asc topic 810-10, consolidation , which affect the reporting of non-controlling interests in partially-owned consolidated subsidiaries, and for the adoption of asc topic 470-20, debt with conversion and other options . we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the successor internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission and our report dated april 7, 2010 expressed an adverse opinion on the successor internal control over financial reporting. /s/ deloitte &amp; touche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan april 7, 2010 121 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries consolidated statements of operations (in millions, except per share amounts)risk factors 26 risk factors we face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. while we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. our business is highly dependent on sales volume. global vehicle sales have declined significantly from their peak levels, and there is no assurance that the global automobile market will recover in the near future or that it will not suffer a significant further downturn. our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, as demonstrated by the effect of sharp declines in vehicle sales on our and old gm business in the u.s. since 2007 and globally since 2008. vehicle sales in the u.s. have fallen significantly on an annualized basis since their peak in 2007, and sales globally have shown steep declines on an annualized basis since their peak in january 2008. many of the economic and market conditions that drove the drop in vehicle sales, including declines in real estate values, unemployment, tightened credit markets, depressed consumer confidence and weak housing markets, continue to affect sales. recent concerns over levels of sovereign indebtedness have contributed to a renewed tightening of credit markets in some of the markets in which we do business. although vehicle sales began to recover in certain of our markets in the three months ended december 31, 2009 and the recovery has continued through december 31, 2010, the recovery in vehicle sales in certain of our markets, including north america, has been proceeding slowly and there is no assurance that this recovery in vehicle sales will continue or spread across all our markets. further, sales volumes may again decline severely or take longer to recover than we expect, and if they do, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. our ability to change public perception of our company and products is essential to our ability to attract a sufficient number of consumers to consider our vehicles, particularly our new products, which is critical to our ability to achieve long-term profitability. our ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to entice consumers to consider our products when purchasing a new vehicle. the automotive industry, particularly in the u.s., is very competitive, and our competitors have been very successful in persuading customers that previously purchased our products to purchase their vehicles instead as is reflected by our loss of market share over the past three years. we believe that this is due, in part, to a negative public perception of our products in relation to those of some of our competitors. changing this perception, including with respect to the fuel efficiency of our products, as well as the perception of our company in light of old gm bankruptcy and our status as a recipient of aid under the troubled asset relief program (tarp), will be critical to our long-term profitability. if we are unable to change public perception of our company and products, especially our new products, including cars and crossovers, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. shortages of and volatility in the price of oil have caused and may have a material adverse effect on our business due to shifts in consumer vehicle demand. volatile oil prices in 2008 and 2009 contributed to weaker demand for some of old gm and our higher margin vehicles, especially our fullsize sport utility vehicles, as consumer demand shifted to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins and in recent years represented a smaller proportion of old gm and our sales volume in north america. fullsize pick-up trucks, which are generally less fuel efficient than smaller vehicles, represented a higher percentage of old gm and our north american sales during 2008 and 2009 compared to the total industry average percentage of fullsize pick-up truck sales in those periods. demand for traditional sport utility vehicles and vans also declined during the same periods. any increases in the price of oil in the u.s. or in our other markets or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of political instability in the middle east and african nations, could weaken the demand for such vehicles, which could reduce our market share in affected markets, decrease profitability, and have a material adverse effect on our business. the pace of introduction and market acceptance of new vehicles is important to our success, and the frequency of new vehicle introductions and vehicle improvements may be materially adversely affected by reductions in capital expenditures. our competitors have introduced new and improved vehicle models designed to meet consumer expectations and will continue to do so. our profit margins, sales volumes, and market shares may decrease if we are unable to produce models that compare favorably 26 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries to these competing models. if we are unable to produce new and improved vehicle models on a basis competitive with the models introduced by our competitors, including models of smaller vehicles, demand for our vehicles may be materially adversely affected. further, the pace of our development and introduction of new and improved vehicles depends on our ability to implement successfully improved technological innovations in design, engineering, and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment. any capital expenditure cuts in these areas that were made in the past or that we may determine to implement in the future to reduce costs and conserve cash could reduce our ability to develop and implement improved technological innovations going forward, which may materially reduce demand for our vehicles. our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations. we are continuing to implement a number of cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives in our automotive operations, including labor modifications and substantial restructuring initiatives for our european operations. our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations, especially in north america and europe. while some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our structural costs. reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety, and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase. failure of our suppliers, due to difficult economic conditions affecting our industry, to provide us with the systems, components, and parts that we need to manufacture our automotive products and operate our business could result in a disruption in our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. we rely on many suppliers to provide us with the systems, components, and parts that we need to manufacture our automotive products and operate our business. in recent years a number of these suppliers have experienced severe financial difficulties and solvency problems, and some have sought relief under the bankruptcy code or similar reorganization laws. this trend intensified in 2009 due to the combination of general economic weakness, sharply declining vehicle sales, and tightened credit availability that has affected the automotive industry generally. suppliers may encounter difficulties in obtaining credit or may receive an opinion from their independent public accountants regarding their financial statements that includes a statement expressing substantial doubt about their ability to continue as a going concern, which could trigger defaults under their financings or other agreements or impede their ability to raise new funds. when comparable situations have occurred in the past, suppliers have attempted to increase their prices, pass through increased costs, alter payment terms, or seek other relief. in instances where suppliers have not been able to generate sufficient additional revenues or obtain the additional financing they need to continue their operations, either through private sources or government funding, which may not be available, some have been forced to reduce their output, shut down their operations, or file for bankruptcy protection. such actions would likely increase our costs, create challenges to meeting our quality objectives, and in some cases make it difficult for us to continue production of certain vehicles. to the extent we take steps in such cases to help key suppliers remain in business, our liquidity would be adversely affected. it may also be difficult to find a replacement for certain suppliers without significant delay. increase in cost, disruption of supply, or shortage of raw materials could materially harm our business. we use various raw materials in our business including steel, non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and copper, and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. the prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. in recent years, freight charges and raw material costs increased. substantial increases in the prices for our raw materials increase our operating costs and could reduce our profitability if we cannot recoup the increased costs through increased vehicle prices. some of these raw materials, such as corrosion-resistant steel, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to 27 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. an increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, which may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as labor strikes, could negatively affect our net revenues and profitability to a material extent. we operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results. the global automotive industry is highly competitive, and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by attempting to sell more vehicles by adding vehicle enhancements, providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering option package discounts or other marketing incentives, or reducing vehicle prices in certain markets. manufacturers in lower cost countries such as china and india have emerged as competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention of exporting their products to established markets as a bargain alternative to entry-level automobiles. these actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results, and present a significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle. our competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by industry consolidation or alliances. designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery, research and development, product design, engineering, technology and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and regulatory requirements. large oems are able to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging their investments and activities on a global basis across brands and nameplates. if our competitors consolidate or enter into other strategic agreements such as alliances, they may be able to take better advantage of these economies of scale. we believe that competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by consolidation or alliances, which could adversely affect our competitiveness with respect to those competitors. competitors could use consolidation or alliances as a means of enhancing their competitiveness or liquidity position, which could also materially adversely affect our business. our business plan and other obligations require substantial liquidity, and inadequate cash flow could materially adversely affect our financial condition and future business operations. we will require substantial liquidity to support our business plan and meet other funding requirements. we expect total engineering and capital spending of $15.0 billion in 2011 as we continue to refresh and broaden our product portfolio, increase our sales, and develop advanced technologies, with continued substantial expenditures on engineering and capital spending in subsequent years. at december 31, 2010 we have debt maturities and capital lease obligations of $9.9 billion through 2015, which include gm financial. we also anticipate continued expenditures to implement long-term cost savings and restructuring plans, including our opel/vauxhall restructuring plan. in addition to the foregoing liquidity needs, we also have minimum liquidity covenants in our secured revolving credit facility, which require us to maintain at least $4.0 billion in consolidated global liquidity and at least $2.0 billion in consolidated u.s. liquidity. refer to management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources for a further discussion of these liquidity requirements. if our liquidity levels approach the minimum liquidity levels necessary to support our normal business operations, we may be forced to raise additional capital on terms that may not be favorable, curtail engineering and capital spending, and reduce research and development and other programs that are important to the future success of our business. a reduction in engineering and capital and research and development spending would negatively affect our ability to meet planned product launches and to refresh our product line-up at the pace contemplated in our business plan. if this were to happen, our future revenue and profitability could be negatively affected. although we believe we possess sufficient liquidity to operate our business, our ability to maintain adequate liquidity over the long-term will depend significantly on the volume, mix and quality of our vehicle sales and our ability to minimize operating expenses. our liquidity needs are sensitive to changes in each of these and other factors. 28 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries as part of our business plan, we have reduced compensation for our most highly paid executives and have reduced the number of our management and non-management salaried employees, and these actions may materially adversely affect our ability to hire and retain salaried employees. as part of the cost reduction initiatives in our business plan, and pursuant to the direction of the special master for tarp executive compensation (the special master), the form and timing of the compensation for our most highly paid executives is not competitive with that offered by other major corporations. furthermore, while we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the ust credit agreement, the executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of section 111 of the emergency economic stabilization act of 2008 (eesa), including the interim final rule implementing section 111 (the interim final rule), will continue to apply to us for the period specified in the eesa and the interim final rule. certain of the covenants in the ust credit agreement will continue to apply to us until the earlier to occur of (1) us ceasing to be a recipient of exceptional financial assistance, as determined pursuant to the interim final rule or any successor or final rule, or (2) ust ceasing to own any direct or indirect equity interests in us. the effect of section 111 of eesa, the interim final rule and the covenants is to restrict the compensation that we can provide to our top executives and prohibit certain types of compensation or benefits for any employees. at the same time, we have substantially decreased the number of salaried employees so that the workload is shared among fewer employees and in general the demands on each salaried employee are increased. companies in similar situations have experienced significant difficulties in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees, particularly in competitive specialties. given our compensation structure and increasing job demands, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to hire and retain the employees whose expertise is required to execute our business plan while at the same time developing and producing vehicles that will stimulate demand for our products. our plan to reduce the number of our retail channels and brands and to consolidate our dealer network may reduce our total sales volume and our market share and not result in the cost savings we anticipate. as part of our business plan we will focus our resources in the u.s. on four brands: chevrolet, cadillac, buick and gmc. we completed the sale of saab in february 2010 and saab gb in may 2010, and have completed the wind down of our pontiac, saturn and hummer brands. we have recently completed the federal arbitration process concerning dealer reinstatement and at december 31, 2010 we have reduced the total number of our u.s. dealerships to 4,500. we anticipate that this reduction in retail outlets, brands, and dealers will result in cost savings over time, but there is no assurance that we will realize all the savings expected. we also anticipate our sales volume and market share will increase over time, but it is also possible that our market share could decline in the short-term and beyond because of these reductions in brands and dealers which may adversely affect our results of operations. our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various european countries, but we may not succeed in doing so, and our failure to restructure these operations in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various european countries, and we are actively working to accomplish this. restructurings, whether or not ultimately successful, can involve significant expense and disruption to the business as well as labor disruptions, which can adversely affect the business. the restructuring of our european operations will require us to invest additional funds and require significant management attention. in september 2010 we committed up to $4.2 billion through an intercompany facility and equity commitments to fund this restructuring and opel/vauxhall ongoing cash requirements. we cannot assure you that any of our contemplated restructurings will be completed or achieve the desired results, and if we cannot successfully complete such restructurings, we may choose to, or the directors of the relevant entity may be compelled to, or creditors may force us to, seek relief for our various european operations under applicable local bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, or similar laws, where we may lose control over the outcome of the restructuring process due to the appointment of a local receiver, trustee, or administrator (or similar official) or otherwise and which could result in a liquidation and us losing all or a substantial part of our interest in the business. 29 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries our u.s. defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded, and our pension funding obligations could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, investment decisions that do not achieve adequate returns, and investment risk inherent in our investment portfolio. our future funding obligations for our u.s. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the internal revenue service (irs) depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. a detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is shown in note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. due to old gm contributions to the plans and to the strong performance of these assets during prior periods, the u.s. hourly and salaried pension plans were consistently overfunded from 2005 through 2007, which allowed old gm to maintain a surplus without making additional contributions to the plans. however, the funded status subsequently deteriorated due to a combination of factors. adverse equity and credit markets reduced the market value of plan assets, while the present value of pension liabilities rose significantly in response to declines in the discount rate, the effect of separation programs and increases in the level of pension benefits and number of beneficiaries. this increase in beneficiaries was partially due to the inclusion of certain delphi hourly employees. as a result of these adverse factors, our u.s. defined benefit pension plans were underfunded on a u.s. gaap basis by $12.4 billion at december 31, 2010. the defined benefit pension plans are accounted for on an actuarial basis, which requires the selection of various assumptions, including an expected rate of return on plan assets and a discount rate. in the u.s., in the year ended december 31, 2010 interest rates on high quality corporate bonds decreased. the next pension funding valuation to be prepared based on the requirements of the ppa will be as of october 1, 2010. in december 2010 we made a $4.0 billion cash contribution to our u.s. hourly and salaried pension plans and in january 2011 we contributed 61 million shares of our common stock to our u.s. hourly and salaried pension plans valued at $2.2 billion for funding purposes. the contributed shares qualify as a plan asset for funding purposes immediately, and will qualify as a plan asset for accounting purposes when certain restrictions are removed, which is expected in 2011. a hypothetical funding valuation at december 31, 2010, using the 3-segment rate at may 31, 2010 for the funding valuation of the plan year beginning october 1, 2010 and assuming the december 31, 2010 full yield curve funding interest rate for all future funding valuations projects contributions of $2.3 billion and $1.2 billion in 2015 and 2016. our potential funding requirements are described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contractual obligations and other long-term liabilities. if the total values of the assets held by our pension plans decline and/or the returns on such assets underperform our return assumptions, our pension expenses would generally increase and could materially adversely affect our financial position. changes in interest rates that are not offset by contributions, asset returns and/or hedging activities could also increase our obligations under such plans. if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our pension plans outside the u.s., we could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow. at december 31, 2010 our non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans were underfunded on a u.s. gaap basis by $9.8 billion. due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments, additional risks exist. examples include significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market capacity to complete a particular investment strategy, and an inherent divergence in objectives between the ability to manage risk in the short term and inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. if we are unable to meet our required funding obligations for our u.s. pension plans under the terms imposed by regulators at a given point in time, we would need to request a funding waiver from the irs. if the waiver were granted, we would have the opportunity to make up the missed funding, with interest to the plan. additional periods of missed funding could further reduce the plans funded status, resulting in limitations on plan amendments and lump sum payouts from the plans. continued deterioration in the plans funded status could result in benefit accrual elimination. these actions could materially adversely affect our relations with our employees and their labor unions. 30 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries if adequate financing on acceptable terms is not available through ally financial or other sources to our customers and dealers, distributors, and suppliers to enable them to continue their business relationships with us, our business could be materially adversely affected. our customers and dealers require financing to purchase a significant percentage of our global vehicle sales. historically, ally financial has provided most of the financing for our and old gm dealers and a significant amount of financing for our and old gm customers. due to recent conditions in credit markets, particularly later in 2008, retail customers and dealers experienced severe difficulty in accessing the credit markets. as a result the number of vehicles sold or leased declined rapidly in the second half of 2008, with lease contract volume dropping significantly by the end of 2008. this had a significant adverse effect on old gm vehicle sales overall because many of its competitors had captive financing subsidiaries that were better capitalized than ally financial during 2008 and 2009 and thus were able to offer consumers subsidized financing and leasing offers. similarly, the reduced availability of ally financial wholesale dealer financing (in the second half of 2008 and 2009), the increased cost of such financing, and the limited availability of other sources of dealer financing due to the general weakness of the credit market has caused and may continue to cause dealers to modify their plans to purchase vehicles from us. because of recent modifications to our commercial agreements with ally financial, ally financial no longer is subject to contractual wholesale funding commitments or retail underwriting targets. in addition, ally financial credit rating has declined in recent years. this may negatively affect its access to funding and therefore its ability to provide adequate financing at competitive rates to our customers and dealers. a number of other factors could negatively affect ally financial business and financial condition and therefore its ability to provide adequate financing at competitive rates. these factors include regulations to which ally financial is subject as a result of its bank holding company status, disruptions in ally financial funding sources and access to credit markets, ally financial significant indebtedness, adverse conditions in the residential mortgage market and housing markets that have adversely affected ally financial because of its mortgage business, increases or decreases in interest rates, changes in currency exchange rates and fluctuations in valuations of investment securities held by ally financial. our failure to successfully develop our own captive financing unit, including through gm financial, could leave us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have their own captive financing subsidiaries and that therefore may be able to offer consumers and dealers financing and leasing on better terms than our customers and dealers are able to obtain. many of our competitors operate and control their own captive financing subsidiaries. if any of our competitors with captive financing subsidiaries are able to continue to offer consumers and dealers financing and leasing on better terms than our customers and dealers are able to obtain, consumers may be more inclined to purchase our competitors vehicles and our competitors dealers may be better able to stock our competitors products. on october 1, 2010 we completed our acquisition of americredit, which we subsequently renamed general motors financial company, inc. through which we offer leasing and sub-prime financing for our customers. our failure to successfully develop our own captive financing unit, including through gm financial, could result in our loss of customers to our competitors with their own captive financing subsidiaries and could adversely affect our dealers ability to stock our vehicles if they are not able to obtain necessary financing at competitive rates from other sources. we intend to rely on our new captive financing unit, gm financial, to support additional consumer leasing of our vehicles and additional sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring sub-prime vehicle financing, and gm financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles. gm financial is subject to various risks that could negatively affect its business, operations and access to capital and therefore its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options at competitive rates to consumers of our vehicles. because we intend to rely on gm financial to serve as an additional source of leasing and sub-prime financing options for consumers, any impairment of gm financial ability to provide such leasing or sub-prime financing would negatively affect our efforts to expand our market penetration 31 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries among consumers who rely on leasing and sub-prime financing options to acquire new vehicles. the factors that could adversely affect gm financial business and operations and impair its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing at competitive rates include: the availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to finance its loan and lease origination activities pending securitization; its ability to transfer loan receivables to securitization trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds to repay its credit facilities and purchase additional loan receivables; the performance of loans in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; its ability to implement its strategy with respect to desired loan origination volume and effective use of credit risk management techniques and servicing strategies; its ability to effectively manage risks relating to sub-prime automobile receivables; wholesale auction values of used vehicles; and fluctuations in interest rates. the above factors, alone or in combination, could negatively affect gm financial business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles. the ust (or its designee) owns a substantial interest in us, and its interests may differ from those of our other stockholders. the ust owns 32.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of february 15, 2011. as a result of this stock ownership interest, the ust has the ability to exert significant influence, through its power to vote for the election of our directors, over various matters. to the extent the ust elects to exert such significant influence over us, its interests (as a government entity) may differ from those of our other stockholders and it may influence, through its ability to vote for the election of our directors, matters including: the selection, tenure and compensation of our management; our business strategy and product offerings; our relationship with our employees, unions and other constituencies; and our financing activities, including the issuance of debt and equity securities. in particular, the ust may have a greater interest in promoting u.s. economic growth and jobs than other stockholders of the company. for example, while we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the ust credit agreement, a covenant that continues to apply until the earlier of december 31, 2014 or the ust has been paid in full the total amount of all ust invested capital requires that we use our commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure, subject to exceptions, that our manufacturing volume in the united states is consistent with specified benchmarks. in the future we may also become subject to new and additional laws and government regulations regarding various aspects of our business as a result of participation in the tarp program and the u.s. government ownership in our business. these regulations could make it more difficult for us to compete with other companies that are not subject to similar regulations. our secured revolving credit facility as well as the ust credit agreement and the canadian loan agreement contain significant covenants that may restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take actions management believes are important to our long-term strategy. our secured revolving credit facility contains representations, warranties and covenants customary for facilities of its nature, including negative covenants restricting us from incurring liens, consummating mergers or sales of assets and incurring secured 32 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries indebtedness, and restricting us from making certain payments, in each case, subject to exceptions and limitations. availability under the secured revolving credit facility is subject to borrowing base limitations. the secured revolving credit facility contains minimum liquidity covenants, which require us to maintain at least $4.0 billion in consolidated global liquidity and at least $2.0 billion in consolidated u.s. liquidity. while we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the ust credit agreement, the executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of section 111 of the eesa, including the interim final rule, will continue to apply to us for the period specified in the eesa and the interim final rule. certain of the covenants in the ust credit agreement will continue to apply to us until the earlier to occur of (1) us ceasing to be a recipient of exceptional financial assistance, as determined pursuant to the interim final rule or any successor or final rule, or (2) ust ceasing to own any direct or indirect equity interests in us. the effect of section 111 of eesa, the interim final rule and the covenants is to restrict the compensation that we can provide to our top executives and prohibit certain types of compensation or benefits for any employees. similarly, covenants in our wholly-owned subsidiary gmcl canadian loan agreement with the edc limit compensation and benefits for canadian employees. the ust credit agreement contains a covenant requiring us to use our commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure that our manufacturing volume conducted in the united states is consistent with at least 90% of the projected manufacturing level (projected manufacturing level for this purpose being 1,934,000 units in 2011, 1,998,000 units in 2012, 2,156,000 units in 2013 and 2,260,000 units in 2014), absent a material adverse change in our business or operating environment which would make the commitment non-economic. in the event that such a material adverse change occurs, the ust credit agreement provides that we will use commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure that the volume of united states manufacturing is the minimum variance from the projected manufacturing level that is consistent with good business judgment and the intent of the commitment. this covenant survives our repayment of the ust loans and remains in effect through december 31, 2014 unless the ust receives total proceeds from debt repayments, dividends, interest, preferred stock redemptions and common stock sales equal to the total dollar amount of all ust invested capital. ust invested capital totaled $49.5 billion, representing the cumulative amount of cash received by old gm from the ust under the ust loan agreement and the dip facility, excluding $361 million which the ust loaned to old gm under the warranty program and which was repaid on july 10, 2009. this balance also did not include amounts advanced under the ust ally financial loan as the ust exercised its option to convert this loan into ally financial preferred membership interests previously held by old gm in may 2009. at december 31, 2010 the ust had received cumulative proceeds of $23.1 billion from debt repayments, interest payments, series a preferred stock dividends, the series a preferred stock redemption and proceeds from the sale of common stock. the ust invested capital less proceeds received totals $26.4 billion. to the extent we fail to comply with any of the covenants in the ust credit agreement that continue to apply to us, the ust is entitled to seek specific performance and the appointment of a court-ordered monitor acceptable to the ust (at our sole expense) to ensure compliance with those covenants. compliance with the manufacturing volume covenant could require us to increase production volumes in our u.s. plants, shift production from low-cost locations to the u.s. or refrain from shifting production from u.s. plants to low-cost locations. the canadian loan agreement and related agreements include certain covenants requiring gmcl to meet certain annual canadian production volumes expressed as ratios to total overall production volumes in the u.s. and canada and to overall production volumes in the north american free trade agreement (nafta) region. the targets cover vehicles and specified engine and transmission production in canada. these agreements also include covenants on annual gmcl capital expenditures and research and development expenses. in the event a material adverse change occurs that makes the fulfillment of these covenants non-economic (other than a material adverse change caused by the actions or inactions of gmcl), there is an undertaking that the lender will consider adjustments to mitigate the business effect of the material adverse change. these covenants survive gmcl repayment of the loans and certain of the covenants have effect through december 31, 2016. compliance with the covenants contained in our secured revolving credit facility as well as the surviving provisions of the ust credit agreement and the canadian loan agreement could restrict our ability to take actions that management believes are important to our 33 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries long-term strategy. if strategic transactions we wish to undertake are prohibited, our ability to execute our long-term strategy could be materially adversely affected. furthermore, monitoring and certifying our compliance with the surviving provisions of the ust credit agreement and the canadian loan agreement requires a high level of expense and management attention on a continuing basis. our planned investment in new technology in the future is significant and may not be funded at anticipated levels and, even if funded at anticipated levels, may not result in successful vehicle applications. we intend to invest significant capital resources to support our products and to develop new technology. in addition, we plan to invest heavily in alternative fuel and advanced propulsion technologies between 2011 and 2012, largely to support our planned expansion of hybrid and electric vehicles, consistent with our announced objective of being recognized as the industry leader in fuel efficiency. moreover, if our future operations do not provide us with the liquidity we anticipate, we may be forced to reduce, delay, or cancel our planned investments in new technology. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. for example, in november 2010 we began producing the chevrolet volt, an electric car, which requires battery technology that has not yet proven to be commercially viable. there can be no assurance that these advances will occur in a timely or feasible way, that the funds that we have budgeted for these purposes will be adequate, or that we will be able to establish our right to these technologies. however, our competitors and others are pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies, in some cases with more money available, and there can be no assurance that they will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. new laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding increased fuel economy requirements and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant effect on how we do business. we are affected significantly by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. we anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product lineup, will increase significantly in the future. in the u.s. and europe, for example, governmental regulation is primarily driven by concerns about the environment (including greenhouse gas emissions), vehicle safety, fuel economy, and energy security. these government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and may result in substantial costs, including civil penalties. they may also result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. cafe provisions in the eisa mandate fuel economy standards beginning in the 2011 model year that would increase to at least 35 mpg by 2020 on a combined car and truck fleet basis, a 40% increase over current levels. california is implementing ab 1493 which will require increased fuel economy. this california program has standards currently established for the 2009 model year through the 2016 model year. fourteen additional states and the province of quebec have also adopted the california greenhouse gas standards. in may 2009 president obama announced his intention for the federal government to implement a harmonized federal program to regulate fuel economy and greenhouse gases. he directed the epa and the united states department of transportation (dot) to work together to create standards through a joint rulemaking for control of emissions of greenhouse gases and for fuel economy. in the first phase, these standards would apply to passenger cars, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles built in model years 2012 through 2016. carb has agreed that compliance with epa greenhouse gas standards will be deemed compliance with the california greenhouse gas standards for the 2012 through 2016 model years. the epa and the nhtsa, on behalf of dot, issued their final rule to implement this new federal program in april 2010. we have committed to work with epa, the nhtsa, the states, and other stakeholders in support of a strong national program to reduce oil consumption and address global climate change. we are committed to meeting or exceeding these regulatory requirements, and our product plan of record projects compliance with the anticipated federal program through the 2016 model year. we expect that to comply with these standards we will be required to 34 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries sell a significant volume of hybrid or electrically powered vehicles throughout the u.s., as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. there is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis, or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. the eu passed legislation, effective in april 2009 to begin regulating vehicle co 2 emissions beginning in 2012. the legislation sets a target of a fleet average of 95 grams per kilometer for 2020, with the requirements for each manufacturer based on the weight of the vehicles it sells. additional measures have been proposed or adopted in europe to regulate features such as tire rolling resistance, vehicle air conditioners, tire pressure monitors, gear shift indicators, and others. at the national level, 17 eu member states have adopted some form of fuel consumption or carbon dioxide-based vehicle taxation system, which could result in specific market requirements for us to introduce technology earlier than is required for compliance with the eu emissions standards. other governments around the world, such as canada, south korea, and china are also creating new policies to address these same issues. as in the u.s., these government policies could significantly affect our plans for product development. due to these regulations, we could be subject to sizable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. the regulations will result in substantial costs, which could be difficult to pass through to our customers, and could result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which could affect our operations, including facility closings, reduced employment, increased costs, and loss of revenue. a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. many of our operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as sgm. in joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be materially adversely affected. the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. our business in china is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions. maintaining a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the automotive market in china is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. as the size of the chinese market continues to increase, we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. in addition, our business in china is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in china. if we are unable to maintain our position in the chinese market or if vehicle sales in china decrease or do not continue to increase, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. restrictions in our labor agreements could limit our ability to pursue or achieve cost savings through restructuring initiatives, and labor strikes, work stoppages, or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations. substantially all of the hourly employees in our u.s., canadian, and european automotive operations are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements, which usually have a multi-year duration. many of these agreements include provisions that limit our ability to realize cost savings from restructuring initiatives such as plant closings and reductions in workforce. our current collective bargaining agreement with the uaw will expire in september 2011, and while the uaw has agreed to a commitment not to strike prior to 2015, any uaw strikes, threats of strikes, or other resistance in the future could materially adversely affect our business as well as impair our ability to implement further measures to reduce costs and improve production 35 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries efficiencies in furtherance of our north american initiatives. a lengthy strike by the uaw that involves all or a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities in the united states would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition, particularly our liquidity. despite the formation of our new company, we continue to have indebtedness and other obligations. our obligations together with our cash needs may require us to seek additional financing, minimize capital expenditures, or seek to refinance some or all of our debt. despite the formation of our new company, we continue to have indebtedness and other obligations, including significant liabilities to our underfunded defined benefit pension plans. our current and future indebtedness and other obligations could have several important consequences. for example, they could: require us to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations than we currently do to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and other obligations, which will reduce the funds available for other purposes such as product development; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions and adverse developments in our business; limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. future liquidity needs may require us to seek additional financing or minimize capital expenditures. there is no assurance that either of these alternatives would be available to us on satisfactory terms or on terms that would not require us to renegotiate the terms and conditions of our existing debt agreements. our failure to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing our present and future indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. several of the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our secured revolving credit facility and other loan facility agreements, contain covenants requiring us to take certain actions and negative covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions. in the past, we have failed to meet certain of these covenants, including by failing to provide financial statements in a timely manner and failing certain financial tests. the chapter 11 proceedings and the change in control as a result of the 363 sale triggered technical defaults in certain loans for which we had assumed the obligations. a breach of any of the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, if uncured, could lead to an event of default under any such agreements, which in some circumstances could give the lender the right to demand that we accelerate repayment of amounts due under the agreement. therefore, in the event of any such breach, we may need to seek covenant waivers or amendments from the lenders or to seek alternative or additional sources of financing, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain any such waivers or amendments or alternative or additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all. refer to note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on technical defaults and covenant violations. any covenant breach or event of default could harm our credit rating and our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. the ability of our new executive management team to quickly learn the automotive industry and lead our company will be critical to our ability to succeed, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if they are unsuccessful. we have substantially changed our executive management team in the recent past. we have a new chief executive officer who started on september 1, 2010 and a new chief financial officer who started on january 1, 2010, both of whom have no prior outside 36 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries automotive industry experience. we have also promoted from within gm many new senior officers. it is important to our success that the new members of the executive management team quickly understand the automotive industry and that our senior officers quickly adapt and excel in their new senior management roles. if they are unable to do so, and as a result are unable to provide effective guidance and leadership, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we could be materially adversely affected by changes or imbalances in foreign currency exchange and other rates. given the nature and global spread of our business, we have significant exposures to risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, which can have material adverse effects on our business. for example, at times certain of our competitors have derived competitive advantage from relative weakness of the japanese yen through pricing advantages for vehicles and parts imported from japan to markets with more robust currencies like the u.s. and western europe. similarly, a significant strengthening of the korean won relative to the u.s. dollar or the euro would affect the competitiveness of our korean operations as well as that of certain korean competitors. as yet another example, a relative weakness of the british pound compared to the euro has an adverse effect on our results of operations in europe. in preparing the consolidated financial statements, we translate our revenues and expenses outside the u.s. into u.s. dollars using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the period and the assets and liabilities using the foreign currency exchange rate at the balance sheet date. as a result, foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our businesses outside the u.s. expose us to additional risks that may materially adversely affect our business. the majority of our vehicle sales are generated outside the u.s. we are pursuing growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the u.s. operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic, and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including: economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as china; economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including imposing restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the united states and china; foreign regulations restricting our ability to sell our products in those countries; differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions, and safety; differing labor regulations and union relationships; consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism. the effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business. new laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding safety standards, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant negative effect on how we do business. our products must satisfy legal safety requirements. meeting or exceeding government-mandated safety standards is difficult and costly because crashworthiness standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. while we are managing our product development and production operations on a global basis to reduce costs and lead times, unique national or regional standards or vehicle rating programs can result in additional costs for product development, testing, and manufacturing. governments often require the implementation of new requirements during the middle of a product cycle, which can be substantially more expensive than accommodating these requirements during the design of a new product. 37 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries the costs and effect on our reputation of product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. from time to time, we recall our products to address performance, compliance, or safety-related issues. the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. in addition, product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. any costs incurred or lost sales caused by future product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. conversely, not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above. the sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could cause our common stock price to decline or impair our ability to raise capital. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, or the conversion of shares of our series b preferred stock or the perception that conversion could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity and equity-related securities. at february 15, 2011 there are 1,560,743,059 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. at february 15, 2011 mlc holds a warrant to acquire 136,363,636 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $10.00 per share, mlc holds another warrant to acquire 136,363,636 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $18.33 per share, and the uaw retiree medical benefits trust (new veba) holds a warrant to acquire 45,454,545 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $42.31 per share. up to 151,520,000 shares of common stock, subject to anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments, will be issuable upon conversion of the shares of series b preferred stock outstanding at february 15, 2011. of the 1,560,743,059 outstanding shares of common stock at february 15, 2011, the 549,700,000 shares of common stock sold in the november and december 2010 public offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act), unless those shares are held by any of our affiliates, as that term is defined under rule 144 of the securities act. following the expiration of the applicable lock-up periods on may 13, 2011, the 950,300,000 outstanding shares of common stock held by the ust, canada holdings, the new veba and mlc at february 15, 2011 may be eligible for resale under rule 144 under the securities act subject to applicable restrictions under rule 144. in addition, pursuant to the october 15, 2009 equity registration rights agreement we entered into with the ust, canada holdings, the new veba, mlc, and our previous legal entity prior to our october 2009 holding company reorganization (which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company) (equity registration rights agreement), we have granted each of the ust, canada holdings, the new veba and mlc the right to require us in certain circumstances to file registration statements under the securities act covering additional resales of our common stock and other equity securities (including the warrants) held by them and the right to participate in other registered offerings in certain circumstances. as restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights or otherwise sell their shares, the market price of our common stock could decline. in particular, the ust, canada holdings, the new veba and mlc might sell a large number of the shares of our common stock and warrants to acquire our common stock that they hold, or, in the case of the new veba and mlc, exercise their warrants and then sell the underlying shares of our common stock. further, mlc might distribute shares of our common stock and warrants to acquire our common stock that it holds to its numerous creditors and other stakeholders pursuant to a plan of reorganization confirmed by the bankruptcy court in the chapter 11 proceedings, and those creditors and other stakeholders might resell those shares and warrants. such sales or distributions of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or warrants could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. furthermore, on january 13, 2011 we contributed 60,606,061 shares of our common stock to our u.s. hourly and salaried pension plans. the contributed shares qualify as a plan asset for funding purposes immediately, and will qualify as a plan asset for accounting purposes when certain restrictions are removed, which is expected in 2011. in connection with such contribution, we entered into a registration rights agreement dated january 13, 2011 with sub-trusts established under the u.s. hourly and salaried pension plans (pension plan registration rights agreement), whereby we granted the pension plans the right to require us in certain circumstances 38 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries to file registration statements under the securities act covering additional resales of those shares of our common stock held by them and the right to participate in other registered offerings in certain circumstances. if the pension plans exercise their registration rights or otherwise sell their shares, the market price of our common stock could decline. we have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock, and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited. we have no current plans to commence payment of a dividend on our common stock. our payment of dividends on our common stock in the future will be determined by our board of directors in its sole discretion and will depend on business conditions, our financial condition, earnings and liquidity, and other factors. so long as any share of our series a preferred stock or series b preferred stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends have been paid on our series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock, subject to exceptions, such as dividends on our common stock payable solely in shares of our common stock. in addition, our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, subject to exceptions such as dividends payable solely in shares of our common stock. any indentures and other financing agreements that we enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock. in the event that any of our indentures or other financing agreements in the future restricts our ability to pay dividends in cash on our common stock, we may be unable to pay dividends in cash on our common stock unless we can refinance the amounts outstanding under those agreements. in addition, under delaware law, our board of directors may declare dividends on our capital stock only to the extent of our statutory surplus (which is defined as the amount equal to total assets minus total liabilities, in each case at fair market value, minus statutory capital), or if there is no such surplus, out of our net profits for the then current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. further, even if we are permitted under our contractual obligations and delaware law to pay cash dividends on our common stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay dividends in cash on our common stock. * * * * * * * quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 134 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk automotive we and old gm entered into a variety of foreign currency exchange, interest rate and commodity forward contracts and options to manage exposures arising from market risks resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. we do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. the overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the risk management committee, which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. the risk management committee is comprised of members of our management and functions under the oversight of the finance and risk committee, a committee of the board of directors. the finance and risk committee assists and guides the board in its oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. a risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions, in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the risk management committee. in august 2010 we changed our risk management policy. our prior policy was intended to reduce volatility of forecasted cash flows primarily through the use of forward contracts and swaps. the intent of the new policy is primarily to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures and involves a shift to greater use of purchased options. a discussion of our and old gm accounting policies for derivative financial instruments is included in note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. further information on our exposure to market risk is included in note 21 to our consolidated financial statements. old gm credit standing and liquidity position in the first half of 2009 and the chapter 11 proceedings severely limited its ability to manage risks using derivative financial instruments as most derivative counterparties were unwilling to enter into transactions with old gm. subsequent to the 363 sale and through december 31, 2009, we were largely unable to enter forward contracts pending the completion of negotiations with potential derivative counterparties. since august 2010 we executed new agreements with counterparties that enable us to enter into options, forward contracts and swaps. the following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk and equity price risk. sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. the models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity prices. for options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect of market shifts. there are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rates and commodity prices change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency pairs, or offsetting long-short positions in currency pairs which may significantly reduce the potential loss in value. foreign currency exchange rate risk we have and old gm had foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling, and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of the operations. derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2010 such contracts have remaining maturities of up to 12 months. at december 31, 2010 our three most significant foreign currency exposures are the euro/british pound, u.s. dollar/korean won, and euro/korean won. at december 31, 2010 and 2009 the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $3.3 billion and $5.9 billion. this presentation utilizes a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and excludes the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be $513 million and $941 million at december 31, 2010 and 2009. 134 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries we are and old gm was exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial position. the following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction gains (losses) (dollars in millions): successor predecessor year ended december 31, 2010 july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009 january 1, 2009 through july 9, 2009 foreign currency translation gain (loss) recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ 235 $ 157 $ 232 foreign currency transaction gain (loss) recorded in earnings $ (209 ) $ (755 ) $ (1,077 ) interest rate risk we are and old gm was subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial instruments, primarily debt, capital lease obligations and certain marketable securities. interest rate risk in old gm was managed primarily with interest rate swaps. the interest rate swaps old gm entered into usually involved the exchange of fixed for variable rate interest payments to effectively convert fixed rate debt into variable rate debt in order to achieve a target range of variable rate debt. at december 31, 2010 we did not have any interest rate swap derivative positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations. the following table summarizes our automotive debt by fixed rate and variable rate (dollars in millions): successor december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 short-term debt fixed rate $ 305 $ 592 short-term debt variable rate 1,311 9,629 total short-term debt $ 1,616 $ 10,221 short-term debt fixed rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 96 $ 232 short-term debt fixed rate denominated in foreign currency 209 360 total short-term debt fixed rate $ 305 $ 592 short-term debt variable rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 347 $ 6,253 short-term debt variable rate denominated in foreign currency 964 3,376 total short-term debt variable rate $ 1,311 $ 9,629 long-term debt fixed rate $ 2,519 $ 4,689 long-term debt variable rate 495 873 total long-term debt $ 3,014 $ 5,562 long-term debt fixed rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 601 $ 3,401 long-term debt fixed rate denominated in foreign currency 1,918 1,288 total long-term debt fixed rate $ 2,519 $ 4,689 long-term debt variable rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 287 $ 551 long-term debt variable rate denominated in foreign currency 208 322 total long-term debt variable rate $ 495 $ 873 135 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries at december 31, 2010 and 2009 the fair value liability of debt and capital leases was $4.8 billion and $16.0 billion. the potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would be $166 million and $402 million at december 31, 2010 and 2009. at december 31, 2010 we had $6.6 billion in marketable securities with exposure to interest rate risk. we invest in securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would be $15 million at december 31, 2010. our exposure to interest rate risk on marketable securities at december 31, 2009 was insignificant. commodity price risk we are and old gm was exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in the automotive business, primarily associated with various non-ferrous and precious metals for automotive components and energy used in the overall manufacturing process. certain commodity purchase contracts meet the definition of a derivative. old gm entered into various derivatives, such as commodity swaps and options, to offset its commodity price exposures. we use commodity options to offset our commodity price exposures. at december 31, 2010 and 2009 the net fair value asset of commodity derivatives was $84 million and $11 million. the potential loss in fair value resulting from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices would be $47 million and $6 million at december 31, 2010 and 2009. this amount excludes the offsetting effect of the commodity price risk inherent in the physical purchase of the underlying commodities. equity price risk we are and old gm was exposed to changes in prices of equity securities held. we typically do not attempt to reduce our market exposure to these equity instruments. our exposure includes certain investments we hold in warrants of other companies. at december 31, 2010 and 2009 the fair value of these warrants was $44 million and $25 million. at december 31, 2010 and 2009 our exposure also includes investments of $43 million and $45 million in equity securities recorded at fair value. these amounts represent the maximum exposure to loss from these investments. at december 31, 2010, the carrying amount of cost method investments was $1.7 billion, of which the carrying amounts of our investments in ally financial common stock and ally financial preferred stock were $964 million and $665 million. at december 31, 2009 the carrying amount of cost method investments was $1.7 billion, of which the carrying amounts of our investments in ally financial common stock and preferred stock were $970 million and $665 million. these amounts represent the maximum exposure to loss from these investments. counterparty risk we are exposed to counterparty risk on derivative contracts, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty to a derivative contract defaulted. we enter into agreements with counterparties that allow the set-off of certain exposures in order to manage this risk. our counterparty risk is managed by our risk management committee, which establishes exposure limits by counterparty. we monitor and report our exposures to the risk management committee on a periodic basis. at december 31, 2010 a majority of all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated a or higher. concentration of credit risk we are exposed to concentration of credit risk primarily through holding cash and cash equivalents (which include money market funds), short- and long-term investments and derivatives. as part of our risk management process, we monitor and evaluate the credit standing of the financial institutions with which we do business. the financial institutions with which we do business are generally highly rated and geographically dispersed. 136 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries we are exposed to credit risk related to the potential inability to access liquidity in money market funds we invested in if the funds were to deny redemption requests. as part of our risk management process, we invest in large funds that are managed by reputable financial institutions. we also follow investment guidelines to limit our exposure to individual funds and financial institutions. automotive financing fluctuations in market interest rates affect gm financial credit facilities and securitization transactions. gm financial gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between interest earned on finance receivables and interest paid, is affected by changes in interest rates as a result of gm financial dependence upon the issuance of variable rate securities and the incurrence of variable rate debt to fund purchases of finance receivables. credit facilities fixed interest rate receivables purchased by gm financial are pledged to secure borrowings under its credit facilities. amounts borrowed under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to protect the interest rate spread within each credit facility, gm financial is contractually required to enter into interest rate cap agreements in connection with borrowings under its credit facilities. the purchaser of the interest rate cap pays a premium in return for the right to receive the difference in the interest cost at any time a specified index of market interest rates rises above the stipulated cap rate. the purchaser of the interest rate cap bears no obligation or liability if interest rates fall below the cap rate. as part of gm financial interest rate risk management strategy and when economically feasible, it may simultaneously enter into a corresponding interest rate cap agreement in order to offset the premium paid by the trust to purchase the interest rate cap and thus retain the interest rate risk. the fair value of the interest rate cap purchased is included in total gm financial assets and the fair value of the interest rate cap agreement sold is included in total gm financial liabilities. securitizations the interest rate demanded by investors in gm financial securitization transactions depends on prevailing market interest rates for comparable transactions and the general interest rate environment. gm financial utilizes several strategies to minimize the effect of interest rate fluctuations on its gross interest rate margin, including the use of derivative financial instruments and the regular sale or pledging of automotive receivables to securitization trusts. in gm financial securitization transactions, it transfers fixed rate finance receivables to securitization trusts that, in turn, sell either fixed rate or floating rate securities to investors. the fixed rates on securities issued by the trusts are indexed to market interest rate swap spreads for transactions of similar duration or various libor rates and do not fluctuate during the term of the securitization. the floating rates on securities issued by the trusts are indexed to libor and fluctuate periodically based on movements in libor. derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swap and cap derivatives, are used to manage the gross interest rate spread on these transactions. gm financial uses interest rate swap derivatives to convert the variable rate exposures on securities issued by its securitization trusts to a fixed rate, thereby locking in the gross interest rate spread to be earned by it over the life of a securitization. interest rate swap derivatives purchased by gm financial do not affect the amount of cash flows received by holders of the asset-backed securities issued by the trusts. the interest rate swap derivative serve to offset the effect of increased or decreased interest paid by the trusts on floating rate asset-backed securities on the cash flows received from the trusts. gm financial utilizes such arrangements to modify its net interest sensitivity to levels deemed appropriate based on risk tolerance. in circumstances where the interest rate risk is deemed to be tolerable, usually if the risk is less than one year in term at inception, gm financial may choose not to hedge potential fluctuations in cash flows due to changes in interest rates. its special purpose entities are contractually required to purchase a derivative financial instrument to protect the net spread in connection with the issuance of floating rate securities even if gm financial chooses not to hedge its future cash flows. although the interest rate cap derivatives are purchased by the trusts, cash outflows from the trusts ultimately affect gm financial retained interests in the securitization transactions as cash expended by the securitization trusts will decrease the ultimate amount of cash to be received by gm financial. therefore, when economically feasible, gm financial may simultaneously sell a corresponding interest rate cap derivative to offset the premium paid 137 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries by the trust to purchase the interest rate cap derivative. the fair value of the interest rate cap derivatives purchased in connection with securitization transactions are included in total gm financial assets and the fair value of the interest rate cap derivatives sold are included in total gm financial liabilities. changes in the fair value of the interest rate cap derivatives are a component of interest expense recorded in gm financial operating expenses and other. gm financial has entered into interest rate swap derivatives to hedge the variability in interest payments on eight of its active securitization transactions. portions of these interest rate swap derivatives are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. the fair value of interest rate swap derivatives designated as hedges is included in gm financial other liabilities. interest rate swap derivatives that are not designated as hedges are included in gm financial other assets. the following table summarizes gm financial interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2010 (dollars in millions): years ending december 31, december 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter fair value assets finance receivables principal amounts $ 3,755 $ 2,434 $ 1,287 $ 678 $ 372 $ 161 $ 8,186 weighted-average annual percentage rate 15.74 % 15.66 % 15.57 % 15.36 % 15.21 % 15.37 % interest rate swap agreements notional amounts $ 754 $ 460 $ 13 $ $ $ $ 23 average pay rate 5.32 % 3.53 % 0.97 % average receive rate 1.03 % 1.16 % 0.43 % interest rate cap agreements notional amounts $ 177 $ 164 $ 144 $ 169 $ 79 $ 213 $ 8 average strike rate 4.81 % 4.73 % 4.71 % 4.53 % 4.18 % 3.47 % liabilities credit facilities principal amounts $ 533 $ 296 $ $ $ $ $ 832 weighted-average interest rate 3.19 % 2.28 % securitization notes principal amounts $ 2,961 $ 1,703 $ 659 $ 423 $ 275 $ $ 6,107 weighted-average interest rate 3.44 % 4.03 % 4.44 % 4.38 % 4.88 % senior notes principal amounts $ $ $ $ $ 68 $ $ 71 weighted-average interest rate 8.50 % convertible senior notes principal amounts $ 1 $ $ 1 $ $ $ $ 1 weighted-average coupon interest rate 0.75 % 2.13 % interest rate swap agreements notional amounts $ 754 $ 460 $ 13 $ $ $ $ 47 average pay rate 5.32 % 3.53 % 0.97 % average receive rate 1.03 % 1.16 % 0.43 % interest rate cap agreements notional amounts $ 104 $ 123 $ 144 $ 169 $ 79 $ 213 $ 8 average strike rate 4.94 % 4.85 % 4.71 % 4.53 % 4.18 % 3.47 % 138 table of contents confidential general motors company and subsidiaries gm financial estimates the realization of financing receivables in future periods using discount rate, prepayment and credit loss assumptions similar to its historical experience. notional amounts on interest rate swap and cap derivatives are based on contractual terms. credit facilities and securitization notes payable amounts have been classified based on expected payoff. senior notes and convertible senior notes principal amounts have been classified based on maturity. the notional amounts of interest rate swap and cap derivatives, which are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contracts, represent average amounts that will be outstanding for each of the years included in the table. notional amounts do not represent amounts exchanged by parties and, thus, are not a measure of gm financial exposure to loss through its use of these derivatives. gm financial monitors hedging activities to ensure that the value of derivative financial instruments, their correlation to the contracts being hedged and the amounts being hedged continue to provide effective protection against interest rate risk. however, there can be no assurance that these strategies will be effective in minimizing interest rate risk or that increases in interest rates will not have an adverse effect on gm financial profitability. gm financial does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. * * * * * * * 139 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in management report on internal control over financial reporting in item 9a. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of general motors company and subsidiaries as of and for the year ended december 31, 2010 (successor). our report dated march 1, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule and included an explanatory paragraph related to the successor adoption of a revised accounting standard related to consolidation principles. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan march 1, 2011 140 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of general motors company and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2010 (successor) and 2009 (successor), and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and equity (deficit) for the year ended december 31, 2010 (successor) and the period july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009 (successor), and the consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and equity (deficit) of general motors corporation and subsidiaries for the period january 1, 2009 through july 9, 2009 (predecessor) and the year ended december 31, 2008 (predecessor) (successor and predecessor collectively, the company). our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at item 15. these financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the company management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of general motors company and subsidiaries at december 31, 2010 (successor) and 2009 (successor) and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year ended december 31, 2010 (successor) and the period july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009 (successor), and the results of operations and cash flows of general motors corporation and subsidiaries for the period january 1, 2009 through july 9, 2009 (predecessor) and the year ended december 31, 2008 (predecessor), in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. as discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the successor adopted amendments to accounting standards codification (asc) topic 810, consolidation , effective january 1, 2010. as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, on july 10, 2009 the successor completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of the predecessor in accordance with the amended and restated master sale and purchase agreement pursuant to section 363(b) of the bankruptcy code and the bankruptcy court sale order dated july 5, 2009. accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with asc topic 852, reorganizations . the successor applied fresh-start reporting and recognized the acquired net assets at fair value, resulting in a lack of comparability with the prior period financial statements of the predecessor. as discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the predecessor adopted amendments to asc topic 805, business combinations , effective january 1, 2009. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the successor internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission, and our report dated march 1, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the successor internal control over financial reporting. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan march 1, 2011 141 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries consolidated statements of operations (in millions, except per share amounts)risk factors 19 risk factors we face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. while we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. our business is highly dependent on sales volume. there is no assurance that the global automobile market will not suffer another significant downturn. our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, as demonstrated by the effect of sharp declines in vehicle sales on our and old gm's business during the most recent economic downturn. a number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, levels of unemployment, the availability of credit, fluctuations in the cost of fuel and consumer confidence. in particular, recent concerns over levels of sovereign indebtedness have contributed to a renewed tightening of credit markets in some of the markets in which we do business. we cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty and any change in economic and market conditions that negatively affects sales volumes could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term is dependent upon our ability to introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers. our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term depends on our ability to entice consumers to consider our products when purchasing a new vehicle. the automotive industry, particularly in the u.s., is very competitive with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models designed to meet consumer expectations, and in the recent past our competitors have been very successful in persuading customers that previously purchased our products to purchase their vehicles instead. producing new and improved vehicle models on a basis competitive with the models introduced by our competitors and changing this perception, including with respect to smaller, more fuel efficient vehicles, as well as the perception of our company in light of old gm's bankruptcy and our status as a recipient of aid under the troubled asset relief program (tarp), will be critical to our long-term profitability. the pace of our development and introduction of new and improved vehicles depends on our ability to implement successfully improved technological innovations in design, engineering, and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. government support of the production of vehicles with these technologies has led some consumers to have a negative impression of these vehicles, which reduces sales. there can be no assurance that our competitors and others pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies, in some cases with more money available, will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. if we are unable to achieve these goals, we may not be able to maintain profitability over the long-term. shortages of and volatility in the price of oil have caused and may have a material adverse effect on our business due to shifts in consumer vehicle demand. volatile oil prices in recent years have tended to cause a shift in consumer demand towards smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins and in recent years represented a smaller proportion of old gm's and our sales volume in north america. any increases in the price of oil in the u.s. or in our other markets or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of political instability in the middle east, south america and african nations, could weaken the demand for our higher margin fullsize pick-up trucks and sport utility vehicles, which could reduce our market share in affected markets, decrease profitability, and have a material adverse effect on our business. our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations. 19 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries we are continuing to implement a number of cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives in our automotive operations, including labor modifications and substantial restructuring initiatives for our european operations. our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations, especially in north america and europe. while some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our structural costs. reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety, and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase. our automotive manufacturing operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to provide us with systems, components, and parts and any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule and adversely affect our operations. our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our use of just-in-time manufacturing processes results in our having minimal inventories of the systems, components, and parts we need to conduct our automotive manufacturing operations. as a result, our ability to maintain production is dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of systems, components, and parts at such times as allow us to meet our production schedules. a disruption in any of our suppliers' operations, even if for a relatively short period of time, could cause us to alter our production schedules or suspend production entirely. for example, in march 2011 we suspended production at our shreveport, louisiana assembly facility due to a parts shortage resulting from the earthquake off the coast of japan. in some instances, we purchase systems, components, parts and supplies from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. where we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components or parts could adversely affect our financial results. increase in cost, disruption of supply, or shortage of raw materials could materially harm our business. we use various raw materials in our business including steel, non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and copper, and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. the prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. in recent years, freight charges and raw material costs increased. substantial increases in the prices for our raw materials increase our operating costs and could reduce our profitability if we cannot recoup the increased costs through increased vehicle prices. some of these raw materials, such as corrosion-resistant steel, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. an increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, which may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as labor strikes, could negatively affect our net revenues and profitability to a material extent. we operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results. the global automotive industry is highly competitive, and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by attempting to sell more vehicles by adding vehicle enhancements, providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering option package discounts or other marketing incentives, or reducing vehicle prices in certain markets. manufacturers in lower cost countries such as china and india have emerged as competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention of exporting their products to established markets as a bargain alternative to entry-level automobiles. these actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results, and present a significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle. our competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by industry consolidation or alliances. designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery, research and development, product design, engineering, technology and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and regulatory requirements. large original equipment manufacturers are able to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging their investments and activities on a global basis across brands and nameplates. if our competitors consolidate or enter into other strategic agreements such as alliances, they may be able to take better advantage of these economies of scale. we believe that competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by consolidation or alliances, which could adversely affect 20 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our competitiveness with respect to those competitors. competitors could use consolidation or alliances as a means of enhancing their competitiveness or liquidity position, which could also materially adversely affect our business. as part of our business plan, and pursuant to the direction of the special master for tarp executive compensation, we have limited cash compensation and certain benefits for our most highly paid executives and have reduced the number of our management and non-management salaried employees, and these actions may materially adversely affect our ability to hire and retain salaried employees. as part of the cost reduction initiatives in our business plan, and pursuant to the direction of the special master for tarp executive compensation, the form and timing of the compensation for our most highly paid executives is not competitive with that offered by other major corporations. furthermore, while we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the united states department of the treasury (ust) credit agreement, entered into july 10, 2009, as amended, (ust credit agreement) the executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of section 111 of the emergency economic stabilization act of 2008 (eesa), including the interim final rule implementing section 111 (the interim final rule), will continue to apply to us for the period specified in the eesa and the interim final rule. certain of the covenants in the ust credit agreement will continue to apply to us until the earlier to occur of: (1) us ceasing to be a recipient of exceptional financial assistance, as determined pursuant to the interim final rule or any successor or final rule (exceptional financial assistance); or (2) ust ceasing to own any direct or indirect equity interests in us. the effect of section 111 of eesa, the interim final rule and the covenants is to restrict the compensation that we can provide to our top executives and prohibit certain types of compensation or benefits for any employees. at the same time, we have substantially decreased the number of salaried employees so that the workload is shared among fewer employees and in general the demands on each salaried employee are increased. companies in similar situations have experienced significant difficulties in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees, particularly in competitive specialties. given our compensation structure and increasing job demands, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to hire and retain the employees whose expertise is required to execute our business plan while at the same time developing and producing vehicles that will stimulate demand for our products. our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various european countries, but we may not succeed in doing so, and our failure to restructure these operations in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various european countries, and we are actively working to accomplish this. restructurings, whether or not ultimately successful, can involve significant expense and disruption to the business as well as labor disruptions, which can adversely affect the business. the restructuring of our european operations will require us to invest additional funds and require significant management attention. we cannot assure you that any of our contemplated restructurings will be completed or achieve the desired results. our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded, and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, and investments that do not achieve adequate returns. our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. a detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is disclosed in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. there are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market capacity to absorb a particular investment strategy or high volume transactions, and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. our future funding requirement for our u.s. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the internal revenue service (irs) depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, as other factors are held constant. our potential funding requirements under various assumed scenarios are described in management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations contractual obligations and other long-term liabilities. if we are unable to meet our funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans under the terms imposed by regulators at a given 21 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries point in time, we would need to request a funding waiver from the irs. if the waiver were granted, we would have the opportunity to make up the missed funding, with interest to the plan. additional periods of missed funding could further reduce the plans' funded status, resulting in limitations on plan amendments and lump sum payouts from the plans. continued deterioration in the plans' funded status could result in the cessation of participants' continued accrual of benefits under the terms of the plan until such time as the funding level of the plans meet irs requirements. these actions could materially adversely affect our relations with our employees and their labor unions. factors which affect future funding requirement for our u.s. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-u.s. plans. certain plans outside the u.s. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our pension plans outside the u.s., we could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow. our failure to successfully develop our own captive financing unit, including through gm financial, could leave us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have their own captive financing subsidiaries and that therefore may be able to offer consumers and dealers financing and leasing on better terms than our customers and dealers are able to obtain. many of our competitors operate and control their own captive financing subsidiaries. if any of our competitors with captive financing subsidiaries are able to offer consumers and dealers financing and leasing on better terms than our customers and dealers are able to obtain, consumers may be more inclined to purchase our competitors' vehicles and our competitors' dealers may be better able to stock our competitors' products. through gm financial we offer leasing and sub-prime financing for our customers. our failure to successfully develop our own captive financing unit, including through gm financial, could result in our loss of customers to our competitors with their own captive financing subsidiaries and could adversely affect our dealers' ability to stock our vehicles if they are not able to obtain necessary financing at competitive rates from other sources. we intend to rely on gm financial to support additional consumer leasing of our vehicles and additional sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring sub-prime vehicle financing, and gm financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles. gm financial is subject to various risks that could negatively affect its business, operations and access to capital and therefore its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options at competitive rates to consumers of our vehicles. because we intend to rely on gm financial to serve as an additional source of leasing and sub-prime financing options for consumers, any impairment of gm financial's ability to provide such leasing or sub-prime financing would negatively affect our efforts to expand our market penetration among consumers who rely on leasing and sub-prime financing options to acquire new vehicles. the factors that could adversely affect gm financial's business and operations and impair its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing at competitive rates include: the availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to finance its loan and lease origination activities pending securitization; its ability to transfer loan receivables to securitization trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds to repay its credit facilities and purchase additional loan receivables; the performance of loans in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; its ability to effectively manage risks relating to sub-prime automobile receivables; wholesale auction values of used vehicles; higher than expected vehicle return rates on vehicles gm financial leases; and fluctuations in interest rates. the above factors, alone or in combination, could negatively affect gm financial's business and operations or its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles. the ust (or its designee) owns a substantial interest in us, and its interests may differ from those of our other stockholders. 22 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries the ust owns 31.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of february 15, 2012. as a result of this stock ownership interest, the ust has the ability to exert significant influence over various matters, through its power to vote for the election of our directors. to the extent the ust elects to exert such significant influence over us, its interests (as a government entity) may differ from those of our other stockholders and it may influence, through its ability to vote for the election of our directors, matters including: the selection, tenure and compensation of our management; our business strategy and product offerings; our relationship with our employees, unions and other constituencies; and our financing activities, including the issuance of debt and equity securities. in particular, the ust may have a greater interest in promoting u.s. economic growth and jobs than other stockholders of the company. for example, while we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the ust credit agreement, a covenant that continues to apply until the earlier of december 31, 2014 or the ust has been paid in full the total amount of all ust invested capital requires that we use our commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure, subject to exceptions, that our manufacturing volume in the u.s. is consistent with specified benchmarks. in the future we may also become subject to new and additional laws and government regulations regarding various aspects of our business as a result of participation in the tarp program and the u.s. government's ownership in our business. these regulations could make it more difficult for us to compete with other companies that are not subject to similar regulations. our planned investment in new technology in the future is significant and may not be funded at anticipated levels and, even if funded at anticipated levels, may not result in successful vehicle applications. we intend to invest significant capital resources to support our products and to develop new technology. in addition, we plan to invest heavily in alternative fuel and advanced propulsion technologies between 2012 and 2013, largely to support our planned expansion of hybrid and electric vehicles. moreover, if our future operations do not provide us with the liquidity we anticipate, we may be forced to reduce, delay, or cancel our planned investments in new technology. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. for example, in november 2010 we began producing an electric car which requires battery technology that has not yet proven to be commercially viable. there can be no assurance that these advances will occur in a timely or feasible way, that the funds that we have budgeted for these purposes will be adequate, or that we will be able to establish our right to these technologies. however, our competitors and others are pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies, in some cases they may have more money available, and there can be no assurance that they will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology networks and systems could interfere with our operations, and could compromise the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including supply chain management, manufacturing, invoicing, and collection of payments from our dealer network and from customers of gm financial. additionally, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, the propriety business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. the secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy. despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to our networks and systems, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and reduce the competitive advantage we 23 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. new laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding increased fuel economy requirements and reduced, greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant effect on how we do business. we are affected significantly by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. we anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product lineup, will increase significantly in the future. in the u.s. and europe, for example, governmental regulation is driven primarily by concerns about the environment (including greenhouse gas emissions), vehicle safety, fuel economy, and energy security. these government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and may result in substantial costs, including civil penalties. they may also result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. in the u.s., vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions are regulated under a harmonized national program administered by the nhtsa and the epa. the agencies have set coordinated fuel economy and greenhouse emission standards through the 2016 model year for light duty vehicles and through the 2018 model year for heavy duty trucks. california, which has set its own greenhouse gas emission standards through its ab 1493 rules, has agreed to accept compliance with the national program as compliance with its state program. the nhtsa and epa have proposed the next round of standards for the 2017 through 2025 model years. epa projects that its proposed standards would achieve an average industry fleet of 163 grams/mile of co 2 in the 2025 model year, which would be the equivalent of 54.5 mpg if all the co 2 emissions reduction came from fuel economy technology. nhtsa is proposing standards that would require an average industry fleet fuel economy of 49.6 mpg in the 2025 model year. both agencies have proposed various flexibilities to incentivize early adoption and introduction of advanced technologies that are anticipated to help manufacturers achieve these standards. california has stated that it will adopt standards for the same period and allow manufacturers to comply by meeting the national standards. we are committed to meeting or exceeding these u.s. regulatory requirements, and our product plan of record projects compliance with the anticipated national program through the 2021 model year. the standards for the 2022 through 2025 model years may differ from the levels proposed as a result of a mid-term review by the agencies. therefore, we believe it is premature to project compliance with possible standards for those years. we expect that to comply with these standards we will be required to sell a significant volume of hybrid electric vehicles, as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. there is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis, or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. the eu passed legislation, effective in april 2009 to begin regulating vehicle co 2 emissions beginning in 2012. the legislation sets a target of a fleet average of 95 grams per kilometer for 2020, with the requirements for each manufacturer based on the weight of the vehicles it sells. additional measures have been proposed or adopted in europe to regulate features such as tire rolling resistance, vehicle air conditioners, tire pressure monitors, gear shift indicators, and others. at the national level, 17 eu member states have adopted some form of fuel consumption or carbon dioxide-based vehicle taxation system, which could result in specific market requirements for us to introduce technology earlier than is required for compliance with the eu emissions standards. other governments around the world, such as canada, china, brazil, mexico, and south korea are also creating new policies to address these same issues. as in the u.s., these government policies could significantly affect our plans for product development. due to these regulations, we could be subject to sizable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. the regulations will result in substantial costs, which could be difficult to pass through to our customers, and could result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which could affect our operations, including facility closings, reduced employment, increased costs, and loss of revenue. a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. many of our operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as sgm. in joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes or relationships deteriorate, our success in the joint venture be materially adversely affected. the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. 24 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our business in china is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions. maintaining a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the automotive market in china is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. as the size of the chinese market continues to increase, we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. in addition, our business in china is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in china. if we are unable to maintain our position in the chinese market or if vehicle sales in china decrease or do not continue to increase, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we could be materially adversely affected by changes or imbalances in foreign currency exchange and other rates. given the nature of the automotive industry and global spread of our business, we have significant exposures to risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, which can have material adverse effects on our business. for example, the recent strength of the canadian dollar versus the u.s. dollar has had a negative impact on our profitability as parts and vehicles we manufactured in canada and exported to the u.s. for sale are less competitive. similarly, a significant strengthening of the korean won relative to the u.s. dollar or the euro would affect the competitiveness of our korean operations as well as that of certain korean competitors. as yet another example, a relative weakness of the british pound compared to the euro would have an adverse effect on our results of operations in europe. in preparing the consolidated financial statements, we translate our revenues and expenses outside the u.s. into u.s. dollars using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the period and the assets and liabilities using the foreign currency exchange rate at the balance sheet date. as a result, foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our businesses outside the u.s. expose us to additional risks that may materially adversely affect our business. the majority of our vehicle sales are generated outside the u.s. we are pursuing growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the u.s. operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic, and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including: economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as china; economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including imposing restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the u.s. and china; foreign regulations restricting our ability to sell our products in those countries; differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions, and safety; differing labor regulations and union relationships; consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism. the effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business. new laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding safety standards, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant negative effect on how we do business. our products must satisfy legal safety requirements. meeting or exceeding government-mandated safety standards is difficult and costly because crashworthiness standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. while we are managing our product development and production operations on a global basis to reduce costs and lead times, unique national or regional standards or vehicle rating programs can result in additional costs for product development, testing, and manufacturing. governments often require the implementation of new requirements during the middle of a product cycle, which can be substantially more expensive than accommodating these requirements during the design of a new product. the costs and effect on our reputation of product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. 25 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries from time to time, we recall our products to address performance, compliance, or safety-related issues. the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. in addition, product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. any costs incurred or lost sales caused by future product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. conversely, not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above. the sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could cause our common stock price to decline or impair our ability to raise capital. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, or the conversion of shares of our series b preferred stock or the perception that conversion could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity and equity-related securities. of the 1,565,761,986 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding at february 15, 2012 approximately 55% were held by the ust, canada gen investment corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of canada (canada holdings), the uaw retiree medical benefits trust (new veba), and our u.s. hourly and salaried pension plans. sales or distributions of our common stock by these holders, whether pursuant to an exemption from registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended or the exercise of registration rights, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. in addition, at december 31, 2011 there were warrants outstanding to acquire 313 million shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $10.00 per share to $42.31 per share and up to 152 million shares of common stock, subject to anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments, will be issuable upon conversion of the shares of series b preferred stock outstanding. exercises or distributions of warrants or the conversion of the shares of series b preferred stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. we have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock. we have no current plans to commence payment of a dividend on our common stock. our payment of dividends on our common stock in the future will be determined by our board of directors in its sole discretion and will depend on business conditions, our financial condition, earnings and liquidity, and other factors. so long as any share of our series a preferred stock or series b preferred stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends have been paid on our series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock, subject to exceptions, such as dividends on our common stock payable solely in shares of our common stock. in addition, our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, subject to exceptions such as dividends payable solely in shares of our common stock. any indentures and other financing agreements that we enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock. in the event that any of our indentures or other financing agreements in the future restricts our ability to pay dividends in cash on our common stock, we may be unable to pay dividends in cash on our common stock unless we can refinance the amounts outstanding under those agreements. in addition, under delaware law, our board of directors may declare dividends on our capital stock only to the extent of our statutory surplus (which is defined as the amount equal to total assets minus total liabilities, in each case at fair market value, minus statutory capital), or if there is no such surplus, out of our net profits for the then current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. goodwill impairments could have a material non-cash adverse effect on our results of operations. we test our goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year for all reporting units, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would warrant such a review. in the future, should the recent economic uncertainty continue, our equity price decline on a sustained basis, global economies enter into another recession and industry growth stagnates or should we release deferred tax asset valuation allowances in certain tax jurisdictions (which could occur in the near future if additional positive evidence becomes available), the fair value of one or more of our reporting units may decrease below its carrying amount and future goodwill impairments that may be material could be recognized. in addition future goodwill impairments could occur should gme continue to have a negative carrying amount. in these circumstances, as discussed in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, future goodwill impairments would 26 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries largely be driven by decreases in the fair value to u.s. gaap differences attributable to those assets and liabilities that gave rise to goodwill upon our application of fresh-start reporting. such decreases may occur upon an improvement in our credit rating, a decrease in credit spreads between high quality corporate bond rates and market interest rates thus resulting in a decrease in the spread between our employee benefit related obligations under u.s. gaap and their fair values and/or a change in the fair values of our estimated employee benefit obligations. a decrease would also occur upon reversal of our deferred tax asset valuation allowances. any declines resulting in a goodwill impairment may result in material non-cash charges to our earnings. * * * * * * * quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 84 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk automotive we enter into a variety of foreign currency exchange and commodity forward contracts and options to manage exposures arising from market risks resulting from changes in certain foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. the overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the risk management committee, which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. the risk management committee is composed of members of our management and functions under the oversight of the finance and risk committee, a committee of the board of directors. the finance and risk committee assists and guides the board in its oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. a risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions, in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the risk management committee. our risk management policy intends to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures. further information on our exposure to market risk is included in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements. the following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk and equity price risk. sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. the models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity prices. for options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect of market shifts. there are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, due primarily to the assumption that interest rates and commodity prices change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency pairs, or offsetting long-short positions in currency pairs which may significantly reduce the potential loss in value. foreign currency exchange rate risk we have foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling, and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of the operations. derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2011 such contracts have remaining maturities of up to 12 months. at december 31, 2011 our three most significant foreign currency exposures are the euro/british pound, u.s. dollar/korean won and euro/korean won. at december 31, 2011 and 2010 the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $4.2 billion and $3.3 billion. this presentation utilizes a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives, embedded derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and excludes the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be $637 million and $513 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010. we are exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial position. the following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement gains (losses) (dollars in millions): 84 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries successor year ended december 31, 2011 year ended december 31, 2010 foreign currency translation gain (loss) recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ (167 ) $ 235 gain (loss) resulting from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements recorded in earnings $ (56 ) $ (209 ) interest rate risk we are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial instruments, primarily debt, capital lease obligations and certain marketable securities. at december 31, 2011 we did not have any interest rate swap positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations. the following table summarizes our automotive debt by fixed rate and variable rate (dollars in millions): successor december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 short-term debt - fixed rate $ 573 $ 305 short-term debt - variable rate 1,109 1,311 total short-term debt $ 1,682 $ 1,616 short-term debt - fixed rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 135 $ 96 short-term debt - fixed rate denominated in foreign currency 438 209 total short-term debt - fixed rate $ 573 $ 305 short-term debt - variable rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 192 $ 347 short-term debt - variable rate denominated in foreign currency 917 964 total short-term debt - variable rate $ 1,109 $ 1,311 long-term debt - fixed rate $ 3,536 $ 2,519 long-term debt - variable rate 77 495 total long-term debt $ 3,613 $ 3,014 long-term debt - fixed rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 525 $ 601 long-term debt - fixed rate denominated in foreign currency 3,011 1,918 total long-term debt - fixed rate $ 3,536 $ 2,519 long-term debt - variable rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 32 $ 287 long-term debt - variable rate denominated in foreign currency 45 208 total long-term debt - variable rate $ 77 $ 495 at december 31, 2011 and 2010 the fair value liability of debt and capital leases was $5.5 billion and $4.8 billion. the potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would be $152 million and $166 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010. we invest in marketable securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. our marketable securities portfolio includes marketable securities classified as available-for-sale and trading. at december 31, 2011 and 2010 we had marketable securities of $10.1 billion and $5.4 billion classified as available-for sale with exposure to interest rate risk. the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would be $28 million and $9 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010. 85 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries at december 31, 2011 and 2010 we had marketable securities of $6.0 billion and $107 million classified as trading with exposure to interest rate risk. the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would be $20 million and $6 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in prices of commodities primarily associated with various non-ferrous and precious metals for automotive components and energy used in the overall manufacturing process. certain commodity purchase contracts meet the definition of a derivative. we use commodity options to offset our commodity price exposures. at december 31, 2011 and 2010 the net fair value (liability) asset of commodity derivatives and commodity related embedded derivatives was $(11) million and $84 million. the potential loss in fair value resulting from a 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity prices would be $24 million and $47 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010. this amount excludes the offsetting effect of the commodity price risk inherent in the physical purchase of the underlying commodities. equity price risk at december 31, 2011 the carrying amount of cost method investments was $439 million, of which the carrying amount of our investment in ally financial common stock was $403 million. in march 2011 we sold our investment in ally financial preferred stock for net proceeds of $1.0 billion. at december 31, 2010, the carrying amount of cost method investments was $1.7 billion, of which the carrying amounts of our investments in ally financial common stock and ally financial preferred stock were $964 million and $665 million. these amounts represent the maximum exposure to loss from these investments. refer to note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for further details on the sale of the ally financial preferred stock. automotive financing - gm financial fluctuations in market interest rates affect gm financial's credit facilities and securitization transactions. gm financial's gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between interest earned on finance receivables and interest paid, is affected by changes in interest rates as a result of gm financial's dependence upon the issuance of variable rate securities and the incurrence of variable rate debt to fund purchases of finance receivables. credit facilities fixed interest rate receivables purchased by gm financial are pledged to secure borrowings under its credit facilities. amounts borrowed under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to protect the interest rate spread within each credit facility, gm financial is contractually required to enter into interest rate cap agreements in connection with borrowings under its credit facilities. the purchaser of the interest rate cap pays a premium in return for the right to receive the difference in the interest cost at any time a specified index of market interest rates rises above the stipulated cap or "strike" rate. the purchaser of the interest rate cap bears no obligation or liability if interest rates fall below the cap or "strike" rate. as part of gm financial's interest rate risk management strategy and when economically feasible, it may simultaneously enter into a corresponding interest rate cap agreement in order to offset the premium paid by the trust to purchase the interest rate cap and thus retain the interest rate risk. the fair value of the interest rate cap agreement purchased is included in gm financial other assets and the fair value of the interest rate cap agreement sold is included in gm financial other liabilities. securitizations in gm financial's securitization transactions, it transfers fixed rate finance receivables to securitization trusts that, in turn, sell either fixed rate or floating rate securities to investors. derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps and caps, are used to manage the gross interest rate spread on the floating rate transactions. gm financial uses interest rate swaps to convert the variable rate exposures on securities issued by its securitization trusts to a fixed rate ("pay rate") and receive a floating or variable rate ("receive rate"), thereby locking in the gross interest rate spread to be earned by it over the life of a securitization. interest rate swaps purchased by gm financial do not affect the amount of cash flows received by holders of the asset-backed securities issued by the trusts. the interest rate swaps serve to offset the effect of increased or decreased interest paid by the trusts on floating rate asset-backed securities on the cash flows received from the trusts. gm financial utilizes such arrangements to modify its net interest sensitivity to levels deemed appropriate based on risk tolerances. its spes are contractually required to 86 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries purchase a derivative financial instrument to protect the net spread in connection with the issuance of floating rate securities. the fair value of the interest rate caps purchased in connection with securitization transactions are included in gm financial other assets and the fair value of the interest rate caps sold are included in gm financial other liabilities. changes in the fair value of the interest rate cap derivatives are a component of interest expense recorded in gm financial operating and other expenses. gm financial has entered into interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in interest payments on seven of its active securitization transactions. portions of these interest rate swaps are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. the fair value of interest rate swaps designated as hedges is included in gm financial other liabilities. interest rate swaps that are not designated as hedges are included in gm financial other assets. the following table summarizes gm financial's interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2011 (dollars in millions): years ending december 31, december 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter fair value assets finance receivables principal amounts $ 3,889 $ 2,571 $ 1,532 $ 946 $ 548 $ 265 $ 9,386 weighted-average annual percentage rate 15.19 % 15.04 % 14.87 % 14.71 % 14.52 % 14.60 % interest rate swap agreements notional amounts $ 485 $ 24 $ $ $ $ $ 2 average pay rate 1.44 % 1.17 % average receive rate 0.43 % 0.84 % interest rate cap agreements notional amounts $ 252 $ 259 $ 382 $ 319 $ 135 $ 166 $ 5 average strike rate 4.00 % 3.94 % 3.71 % 3.71 % 3.50 % 3.11 % liabilities credit facilities principal amounts $ 1,099 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,099 weighted-average interest rate 1.88 % securitization notes principal amounts $ 3,164 $ 1,481 $ 1,022 $ 720 $ 422 $ 86 $ 6,946 weighted-average interest rate 2.94 % 3.51 % 4.05 % 4.58 % 5.18 % 3.64 % senior notes principal amounts $ $ $ $ $ $ 500 $ 510 weighted-average interest rate 6.75 % convertible senior notes payable principal amounts $ $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ 1 weighted-average interest rate 2.13 % interest rate swap agreements notional amounts $ 485 $ 24 $ $ $ $ $ 6 average pay rate 1.44 % 1.17 % average receive rate 0.43 % 0.84 % interest rate cap agreements notional amounts $ 210 $ 259 $ 382 $ 319 $ 135 $ 166 $ 5 average strike rate 4.05 % 3.94 % 3.71 % 3.71 % 3.50 % 3.11 % the following table summarizes gm financial's interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2010 (dollars in millions): 87 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries years ending december 31, december 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter fairvalue assets finance receivables principal amounts $ 3,755 $ 2,434 $ 1,287 $ 678 $ 372 $ 161 $ 8,186 weighted-average annual percentage rate 15.74 % 15.66 % 15.57 % 15.36 % 15.21 % 15.37 % interest rate swap agreements notional amounts $ 754 $ 460 $ 13 $ $ $ $ 23 average pay rate 5.32 % 3.53 % 0.97 % average receive rate 1.03 % 1.16 % 0.43 % interest rate cap agreements notional amounts $ 177 $ 164 $ 144 $ 169 $ 79 $ 213 $ 8 average strike rate 4.81 % 4.73 % 4.71 % 4.53 % 4.18 % 3.47 % liabilities credit facilities principal amounts $ 533 $ 296 $ $ $ $ $ 832 weighted-average interest rate 3.19 % 2.28 % securitization notes principal amounts $ 2,961 $ 1,703 $ 659 $ 423 $ 275 $ $ 6,107 weighted-average interest rate 3.44 % 4.03 % 4.44 % 4.38 % 4.88 % senior notes principal amounts $ $ $ $ $ 68 $ $ 71 weighted-average interest rate 8.50 % convertible senior notes principal amounts $ 1 $ $ 1 $ $ $ $ 1 weighted-average coupon interest rate 0.75 % 2.13 % interest rate swap agreements notional amounts $ 754 $ 460 $ 13 $ $ $ $ 47 average pay rate 5.32 % 3.53 % 0.97 % average receive rate 1.03 % 1.16 % 0.43 % interest rate cap agreements notional amounts $ 104 $ 123 $ 144 $ 169 $ 79 $ 213 $ 8 average strike rate 4.94 % 4.85 % 4.71 % 4.53 % 4.18 % 3.47 % gm financial estimates the realization of financing receivables in future periods using discount rate, prepayment and credit loss assumptions similar to its historical experience. notional amounts on interest rate swaps and caps are based on contractual terms. credit facilities and securitization notes payable amounts have been classified based on expected payoff. senior notes and convertible senior notes principal amounts have been classified based on maturity. the notional amounts of interest rate swaps and caps, which are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contracts, represent average amounts that will be outstanding for each of the years included in the table. notional amounts do not represent amounts exchanged by parties and, thus, are not a measure of gm financial's exposure to loss through its use of these derivatives. gm financial monitors hedging activities to ensure that the value of derivative financial instruments, their correlation to the contracts being hedged and the amounts being hedged continue to provide effective protection against interest rate risk. however, there can be no assurance that these strategies will be effective in minimizing interest rate risk or that increases in interest rates will not have an adverse effect on gm financial's profitability. gm financial does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. * * * * * * * 88 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of general motors company and subsidiaries as of and for the year ended december 31, 2011 (successor). our report dated february 27, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule and included an explanatory paragraph related to the successor's adoption of revised accounting standards related to goodwill. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 27, 2012 89 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of general motors company and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2011 (successor) and 2010 (successor), and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and equity (deficit) for the years ended december 31, 2011 (successor) and 2010 (successor) and the period july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009 (successor), and the consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and equity (deficit) of general motors corporation and subsidiaries for the period january 1, 2009 through july 9, 2009 (predecessor) (successor and predecessor collectively, the company). our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at item 15. these financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of general motors company and subsidiaries at december 31, 2011 (successor) and 2010 (successor), and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2011 (successor) and 2010 (successor) and the period july 10, 2009 through december 31, 2009 (successor), and the results of operations and cash flows of general motors corporation and subsidiaries for the period january 1, 2009 through july 9, 2009 (predecessor), in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. as discussed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the successor adopted amendments in accounting standards update (asu) 2010-28 and 2011-08 to accounting standards codification (asc) topic 350, intangibles-goodwill and other , effective january 1, 2011 and october 1, 2011, respectively. as discussed in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, the successor adopted amendments to accounting standards codification (asc) topic 810, consolidation , effective january 1, 2010. as discussed in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements, on july 10, 2009 the successor completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of the predecessor in accordance with the amended and restated master sale and purchase agreement pursuant to section 363(b) of the bankruptcy code and the bankruptcy court sale order dated july 5, 2009. accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with asc topic 852, reorganizations . the successor applied fresh-start reporting and recognized the acquired net assets at fair value, resulting in a lack of comparability with the prior period financial statements of the predecessor. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the successor's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in internal control integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission and our report dated february 27, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the successor's internal control over financial reporting. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 27, 2012 90risk factors 20 risk factors we face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. while we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. our business is highly dependent on sales volume. there is no assurance that the global automobile market will not suffer another significant downturn. our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, as demonstrated by the effect of sharp declines in vehicle sales on our and old gm's business during the most recent economic downturn. a number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, levels of unemployment, the availability of credit, fluctuations in the cost of fuel and consumer confidence. in particular, recent concerns over levels of sovereign indebtedness have contributed to a renewed tightening of credit markets in some of the markets in which we do business. we cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty and any change in economic and market conditions that negatively affects sales volumes could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term is dependent upon our ability to introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers. our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term depends on our ability to entice consumers to consider our products when purchasing a new vehicle. the automotive industry, particularly in the u.s., is very competitive with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models designed to meet consumer expectations, and in the past our competitors have been very successful in persuading customers that previously purchased our products to purchase their vehicles instead. producing new and improved vehicle models on a basis competitive with the models introduced by our competitors and changing any negative perception, in light of old gm's bankruptcy, will be critical to our long-term profitability. we will launch a substantial number of new vehicles in 2013, including our new 2014 chevrolet silverado and gmc sierra fullsize pick-up trucks in north america. a successful launch of our new vehicles is critical to our short term profitability. the pace of our development and introduction of new and improved vehicles depends on our ability to implement successfully improved technological innovations in design, engineering, and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. there can be no assurance that our competitors and others pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. if we are unable to achieve these goals, we may not be able to maintain profitability over the long-term. shortages of and volatility in the price of oil have caused and may have a material adverse effect on our business due to shifts in consumer vehicle demand. volatile oil prices in recent years have tended to cause a shift in consumer demand towards smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins. any increases in the price of oil in the u.s. or in our other markets or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of political instability in the middle east, south america and african nations, could weaken the demand for our higher margin fullsize pick-up trucks and sport utility vehicles, which could reduce our market share in affected markets, decrease profitability, and have a material adverse effect on our business. our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations. we are continuing to implement a number of cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives in our automotive operations, including labor modifications and substantial restructuring initiatives for our european operations. our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these initiatives throughout our automotive operations, especially in europe. while some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our costs. reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety, and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase. 20 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our automotive manufacturing operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to provide us with systems, components, and parts and any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule and adversely affect our operations. our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our use of just-in-time manufacturing processes results in our having minimal inventories of the systems, components, and parts we need to conduct our automotive manufacturing operations. as a result, our ability to maintain production is dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of systems, components, and parts at such times as allow us to meet our production schedules. in some instances, we purchase systems, components, parts and supplies from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. where we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules or suspend production entirely and thus could adversely affect our financial results. increase in cost, disruption of supply, or shortage of raw materials could materially harm our business. we use various raw materials in our business including steel, non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and copper, and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. the prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. in recent years, freight charges and raw material costs increased. substantial increases in the prices for our raw materials increase our operating costs and could reduce our profitability if we cannot recoup the increased costs through increased vehicle prices. some of these raw materials, such as corrosion-resistant steel, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. an increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, which may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as labor strikes, could negatively affect our net revenues and profitability to a material extent. we operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results. the global automotive industry is highly competitive, and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by attempting to sell more vehicles by adding vehicle enhancements, providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering option package discounts or other marketing incentives, or reducing vehicle prices in certain markets. manufacturers in lower cost countries such as china and india have emerged as competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention of exporting their products to established markets as a bargain alternative to entry-level automobiles. these actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results, and present a significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle. our competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by industry consolidation or alliances. designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery, research and development, product design, engineering, technology and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and regulatory requirements. large original equipment manufacturers are able to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging their investments and activities on a global basis across brands and nameplates. if our competitors consolidate or enter into other strategic agreements such as alliances, they may be able to take better advantage of these economies of scale. we believe that competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by consolidation or alliances, which could adversely affect our competitiveness with respect to those competitors. competitors could use consolidation or alliances as a means of enhancing their competitiveness or liquidity position, which could also materially adversely affect our business. our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various european countries, but we may not succeed in doing so, and our failure to restructure these operations in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in 2012 the european automotive industry continued to be severely affected by the ongoing sovereign debt crisis, high unemployment and a lack of consumer confidence coupled with overcapacity. 21 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries in response, we are executing various actions to strengthen our european operations and increase our competitiveness. the key areas of the plan include: investments in our product portfolio; a revised brand strategy; significant management changes; reducing material, development and production costs; and further leveraging synergies from the alliance between us and peugeot s.a. (psa). notwithstanding the above we believe it is likely that adverse economic conditions, and their effect on the european automotive industry will not improve significantly in the short-term and we expect to continue to incur losses in the region as a result. in addition, the success of our plan will depend on a combination of our ability to execute the actions contemplated, as well as external factors, which are outside of our control. our inability to successfully restructure our european operations and implement our plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded, and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, and investments that do not achieve adequate returns. our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. a detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is disclosed in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. there are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market capacity to absorb a particular investment strategy or high volume transactions, and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. our future funding requirement for our u.s. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the internal revenue service depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, as other factors are held constant. our potential funding requirements are described in management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations -- contractual obligations and other long-term liabilities. factors which affect future funding requirement for our u.s. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-u.s. plans. certain plans outside the u.s. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our pension plans outside the u.s., we could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow. we intend to rely on gm financial to support additional consumer leasing of our vehicles and additional sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring sub-prime vehicle financing, and gm financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles. gm financial is subject to various risks that could negatively affect its business, operations and access to capital and therefore its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options at competitive rates to consumers of our vehicles. because we intend to rely on gm financial to serve as an additional source of leasing and sub-prime financing options for consumers, any impairment of gm financial's ability to provide such leasing or sub-prime financing would negatively affect our efforts to expand our market penetration among consumers who rely on leasing and sub-prime financing options to acquire new vehicles. the factors that could adversely affect gm financial's business and operations and impair its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing at competitive rates include: the ability to close the acquisition of certain ally financial international operations and integrate those operations into its business successfully; the availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to finance its loan and lease origination activities pending securitization; its ability to transfer loan receivables to securitization trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to 22 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries generate cash proceeds to repay its credit facilities and purchase additional loan receivables; the performance of loans in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; its ability to effectively manage risks relating to sub-prime automobile receivables; wholesale auction values of used vehicles; higher than expected vehicle return rates on vehicles gm financial leases; and fluctuations in interest rates. the above factors, alone or in combination, could negatively affect gm financial's business and operations or its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles. our planned investment in new technology in the future is significant and may not be funded at anticipated levels and, even if funded at anticipated levels, may not result in successful vehicle applications. we intend to invest significant capital resources to support our products and to develop new technology. in addition, we plan to invest heavily in alternative fuel and advanced propulsion technologies between 2013 and 2014, largely to support our planned expansion of hybrid and electric vehicles. moreover, if our future operations do not provide us with the cash flow we anticipate, we may be forced to reduce, delay, or cancel our planned investments in new technology. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. for example, we produce electric vehicles which require battery technology that has not yet proven to be commercially viable. there can be no assurance that these advances will occur in a timely or feasible way, that the funds that we have budgeted for these purposes will be adequate, or that we will be able to establish our right to these technologies. however, our competitors and others are pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies and there can be no assurance that they will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology networks and systems could interfere with our operations, and could compromise the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including supply chain management, manufacturing, invoicing, and collection of payments from our dealer network and from customers of gm financial. additionally, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, the propriety business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. the secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy. despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to our networks and systems, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. new laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding increased fuel economy requirements and reduced, greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant effect on how we do business. we are affected significantly by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. we anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product lineup, will increase significantly in the future. in the u.s. and europe, for example, governmental regulation is driven primarily by concerns about the environment (including greenhouse gas emissions), vehicle safety, fuel economy, and energy security. these government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and may result in substantial costs, including civil penalties. they may also result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. 23 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries in the u.s., vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions are regulated under a harmonized national program administered by the nhtsa and the epa. the agencies have set coordinated fuel economy and greenhouse emission standards through the 2025 model year for light duty vehicles and through the 2018 model year for heavy duty trucks. california, which has set its own greenhouse gas emission standards through its ab 1493 rules, has agreed to accept compliance with the national program as compliance with its state program. we are committed to meeting or exceeding these u.s. regulatory requirements, and our product plan of record projects compliance with the anticipated national program through the 2021 model year. the standards for the 2022 through 2025 model years may be adjusted as a result of a mid-term review by the agencies. therefore, we believe it is premature to project compliance with possible standards for those years. we expect that to comply with these standards we will be required to sell a significant volume of hybrid electric vehicles, as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. there is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis, or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. the eu passed legislation, effective in april 2009 to begin regulating vehicle co 2 emissions beginning in 2012. the legislation sets a target of a fleet average of 95 grams per kilometer for 2020, with the requirements for each manufacturer based on the weight of the vehicles it sells. additional measures have been proposed or adopted in europe to regulate features such as tire rolling resistance, vehicle air conditioners, tire pressure monitors, gear shift indicators, and others. at the national level, 17 eu member states have adopted some form of fuel consumption or carbon dioxide-based vehicle taxation system, which could result in specific market requirements for us to introduce technology earlier than is required for compliance with the eu emissions standards. other governments around the world, such as canada, china, brazil, mexico, and south korea are also creating new policies to address these same issues. as in the u.s., these government policies could significantly affect our plans for product development. due to these regulations, we could be subject to sizable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. the regulations will result in substantial costs, which could be difficult to pass through to our customers, and could result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which could affect our operations, including facility closings, reduced employment, increased costs, and loss of revenue. a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. many of our operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried out by joint ventures such as sgm. in joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes or relationships deteriorate, our success in the joint venture be materially adversely affected. the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. our business in china is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions. maintaining a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the automotive market in china is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. as the size of the chinese market continues to increase, we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. in addition, our business in china is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in china. if we are unable to maintain our position in the chinese market or if vehicle sales in china decrease or do not continue to increase, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we could be materially adversely affected by changes or imbalances in foreign currency exchange and other rates. given the nature of the automotive industry and global spread of our business, we have significant exposures to risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, which can have material adverse effects on our business. for example, the recent strength of the canadian dollar (cad) versus the u.s. dollar has had a negative impact on our profitability as parts and vehicles we manufactured in canada and exported to the u.s. for sale are less competitive. similarly, a significant strengthening of the korean won relative to the u.s. dollar or the euro would affect the competitiveness of our korean 24 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries operations as well as that of certain korean competitors. as yet another example, a relative weakness of the british pound compared to the euro would have an adverse effect on our results of operations in europe. in preparing the consolidated financial statements, we translate our revenues and expenses outside the u.s. into u.s. dollars using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the period and the assets and liabilities using the foreign currency exchange rate at the balance sheet date. as a result, foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our businesses outside the u.s. expose us to additional risks that may materially adversely affect our business. the majority of our vehicle sales are generated outside the u.s. we are pursuing growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the u.s. operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic, and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including: economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as china; economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including imposing restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the u.s. and china; foreign regulations restricting our ability to sell our products in those countries; differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions, and safety; differing labor regulations and union relationships; consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism. the effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business. new laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding safety standards, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant negative effect on how we do business. our products must satisfy legal safety requirements. meeting or exceeding government-mandated safety standards is difficult and costly because crashworthiness standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. while we are managing our product development and production operations on a global basis to reduce costs and lead times, unique national or regional standards or vehicle rating programs can result in additional costs for product development, testing, and manufacturing. governments often require the implementation of new requirements during the middle of a product cycle, which can be substantially more expensive than accommodating these requirements during the design of a new product. the costs and effect on our reputation of product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. from time to time, we recall our products to address performance, compliance or safety-related issues. the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. in addition product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. any costs incurred or lost sales caused by future product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. conversely, not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above. 25 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries the sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could cause our common stock price to decline or impair our ability to raise capital. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, or the conversion of shares of our series b preferred stock or the perception that conversion could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. of the 1.4 billion shares of our common stock issued and outstanding at december 31, 2012 approximately 48% were held by the united states department of the treasury (ust), canada gen investment corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of canada, the uaw retiree medical benefits trust (new veba), and our u.s. hourly and salaried pension plans. in december 2012, the ust announced its intention to dispose of its remaining shares of our common stock over the following 12 to 15 months, subject to market conditions. sales or distributions of our common stock by these holders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. in addition, at december 31, 2012 there were warrants outstanding to acquire approximately 313 million shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $10.00 per share to $42.31 per share and up to 152 million shares of common stock, subject to anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments, will be issuable upon conversion of the shares of series b preferred stock outstanding. exercises or distributions of warrants or the conversion of the shares of series b preferred stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. * * * * * * * quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk automotive we enter into a variety of foreign currency exchange and commodity forward contracts and options to manage exposures arising from market risks resulting from changes in certain foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. the overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the risk management committee which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. the risk management committee comprises members of our management and functions under the oversight of the audit committee, a committee of the board of directors. the audit committee assists and guides the board of directors in its oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. a risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the risk management committee. our risk management policy intends to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures. further information on our exposure to market risk is included in note 19 to our consolidated financial statements. the following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk. sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. the models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates and interest rate yield curves. for options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect of market shifts. there are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, due primarily to the assumption that interest rates change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. in addition the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency pairs or offsetting long-short positions in currency pairs which may significantly reduce the potential loss in value. foreign currency exchange rate risk we have foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of the operations. at december 31, 2012 our three most significant foreign currency exposures were the euro/british pound, u.s. dollar/korean won and euro/korean won. derivative instruments such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2012 such contracts had remaining maturities of up to 12 months. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $4.0 billion and $4.2 billion. this presentation utilizes a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives, embedded derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and excludes the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be $671 million and $637 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011 . we are exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial condition. the following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement losses (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 foreign currency translation losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 118 $ 167 losses resulting from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements recorded in earnings $ 117 $ 56 71 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries interest rate risk we are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial instruments, primarily debt, capital lease obligations and certain marketable securities. at december 31, 2012 we did not have any interest rate swap positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations. the following table summarizes our automotive debt by fixed rate and variable rate (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 short-term debt - fixed rate $ 749 $ 573 short-term debt - variable rate 999 1,109 total short-term debt $ 1,748 $ 1,682 short-term debt - fixed rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 186 $ 135 short-term debt - fixed rate denominated in foreign currency 563 438 total short-term debt - fixed rate $ 749 $ 573 short-term debt - variable rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 140 $ 192 short-term debt - variable rate denominated in foreign currency 859 917 total short-term debt - variable rate $ 999 $ 1,109 long-term debt - fixed rate $ 3,254 $ 3,536 long-term debt - variable rate 170 77 total long-term debt $ 3,424 $ 3,613 long-term debt - fixed rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 663 $ 525 long-term debt - fixed rate denominated in foreign currency 2,591 3,011 total long-term debt - fixed rate $ 3,254 $ 3,536 long-term debt - variable rate denominated in u.s. dollars $ 28 $ 32 long-term debt - variable rate denominated in foreign currency 142 45 total long-term debt - variable rate $ 170 $ 77 at december 31, 2012 and 2011 the fair value liability of debt and capital leases was $5.3 billion and $5.5 billion . the potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would be $112 million and $152 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011 . we invest in marketable securities of various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. our marketable securities portfolio includes marketable securities classified as available-for-sale and trading. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 we had marketable securities of $3.8 billion and $10.1 billion classified as available-for sale with exposure to interest rate risk. the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would be $28 million and $28 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011 . at december 31, 2012 and 2011 we had marketable securities of $5.2 billion and $6.0 billion classified as trading with exposure to interest rate risk. the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would be $8 million and $20 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011 . equity price risk at december 31, 2012 the carrying amount of our investment in ally financial common stock was $399 million , the carrying amount of our investment in psa was $179 million and the carrying amount of other investments was $21 million. at december 31, 72 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries 2011 the carrying amount of our investment in ally financial common stock was $403 million and the carrying amount of other investments was $36 million. these amounts represent the maximum exposure to loss from these investments. automotive financing - gm financial fluctuations in market interest rates affect gm financial's credit facilities and securitization transactions. gm financial's gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between interest earned on finance receivables and interest paid, is affected by changes in interest rates as a result of gm financial's dependence upon the issuance of variable rate securities and the incurrence of variable rate debt to fund purchases of finance receivables. credit facilities fixed interest rate receivables purchased by gm financial are pledged to secure borrowings under its credit facilities. amounts borrowed under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to protect the interest rate spread within each credit facility, gm financial is contractually required to enter into interest rate cap agreements in connection with borrowings under its credit facilities. securitizations in gm financial's securitization transactions, it can transfer fixed rate finance receivables to securitization trusts that, in turn, sell either fixed rate or floating rate securities to investors. derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps and caps, are used to manage the gross interest rate spread on the floating rate transactions. derivatives gm financial had interest rate swaps and caps in asset positions with notional amounts of $775 million and $2.0 billion at december 31, 2012 and 2011. gm financial had interest rate swaps and caps in liability positions with notional amounts of $775 million and $2.0 billion at december 31, 2012 and 2011. the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. the following table summarizes gm financial's interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, excluding derivatives, by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2012 (dollars in millions): years ending december 31, december 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter fair value assets consumer finance receivables principal amounts $ 4,108 $ 2,860 $ 1,895 $ 1,209 $ 673 $ 315 $ 10,759 weighted-average annual percentage rate 14.54 % 14.39 % 14.25 % 14.10 % 13.95 % 13.84 % commercial finance receivables principal amounts $ 507 $ 6 $ 3 $ 3 $ 35 $ 6 $ 554 weighted-average annual percentage rate 3.78 % 3.80 % 3.76 % 3.78 % 3.47 % 4.53 % liabilities credit facilities principal amounts $ 354 $ $ $ $ $ $ 354 weighted-average interest rate 0.64 % % % % % % securitization notes principal amounts $ 3,406 $ 2,324 $ 1,772 $ 1,073 $ 438 $ $ 9,171 weighted-average interest rate 2.33 % 2.70 % 3.03 % 3.05 % 2.99 % % senior notes principal amounts $ $ $ $ $ 1,000 $ 500 $ 1,620 weighted-average interest rate % % % % 4.75 % 6.75 % the following table summarizes gm financial's interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, excluding derivatives, by year of 73 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2011 (dollars in millions): years ended and ending december 31, december 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter fair value assets finance receivables principal amounts $ 3,889 $ 2,571 $ 1,532 $ 946 $ 548 $ 265 $ 9,386 weighted-average annual percentage rate 15.19 % 15.04 % 14.87 % 14.71 % 14.52 % 14.60 % liabilities credit facilities principal amounts $ 1,099 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,099 weighted-average interest rate 1.88 % % % % % % securitization notes principal amounts $ 3,164 $ 1,481 $ 1,022 $ 720 $ 422 $ 86 $ 6,946 weighted-average interest rate 2.94 % 3.51 % 4.05 % 4.58 % 5.18 % 3.64 % senior notes principal amounts $ $ $ $ $ $ 500 $ 510 weighted-average interest rate % % % % % 6.75 % convertible senior notes principal amounts $ $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ 1 weighted-average coupon interest rate % 2.13 % % % % % gm financial estimates the realization of finance receivables in future periods using discount rate, prepayment and credit loss assumptions similar to its historical experience. credit facilities and securitization notes payable amounts have been classified based on expected payoff. senior notes and convertible senior notes principal amounts have been classified based on maturity. * * * * * * * 74 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2012 , based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2012 , based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated fi nancial statements of general motors company and subsidiaries as of and for the year ended december 31, 2012 . our report dated february 15, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph related to the company's adoption of revised accounting standards related to comprehensive income. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 15, 2013 75 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 , and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2012 . these financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of general motors company and subsidiaries at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2012 , in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. as discussed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the company adopted amendments in accounting standards update (asu) 2011-05 and 2011-12 to accounting standards codification (asc) topic 220, comprehensive income , effective january 1, 2012. as discussed in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the company adopted amendments in asu 2010-28 to asc topic 350, intangibles-goodwill and other , effective january 1, 2011. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2012 , based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission and our report dated february 15, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 15, 2013 76 item 8 . financial statements and supplementary data general motors company and subsidiaries consolidated income statements (in millions, except per share amounts) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 net sales and revenue automotive sales and revenue $ 150,295 $ 148,866 $ 135,311 gm financial revenue 1,961 1,410 281 total net sales and revenue 152,256 150,276 135,592 costs and expenses automotive cost of sales 140,236 130,386 118,768 gm financial operating and other expenses 1,207 785 152 automotive selling, general and administrative expense 13,593 12,105 11,446 other automotive expenses, net 438 58 118 goodwill impairment charges 27,145 1,286 total costs and expenses 182,619 144,620 130,484 operating income (loss) (30,363 ) 5,656 5,108 automotive interest expense 489 540 1,098 interest income and other non-operating income, net 845 851 1,531 gains (losses) on extinguishment of debt (250 ) 18 196 income (loss) before income taxes and equity income (30,257 ) 5,985 5,737 income tax expense (benefit) (34,831 ) (110 ) 672 equity income, net of tax and gain on investments 1,562 3,192 1,438 net income 6,136 9,287 6,503 net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests 52 (97 ) (331 ) net income attributable to stockholders $ 6,188 $ 9,190 $ 6,172 net income attributable to common stockholders $ 4,859 $ 7,585 $ 4,668 earnings per share (note 25) basic basic earnings per common share $ 3.10 $ 4.94 $ 3.11 weighted-average common shares outstanding 1,566 1,536 1,500 diluted diluted earnings per common share $ 2.92 $ 4.58 $ 2.89 weighted-average common shares outstanding 1,675 1,668 1,624 reference should be made to the notes to consolidated financial statements. 77 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries consolidated statements of comprehensive income (in millions) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 net income $ 6,136 $ 9,287 $ 6,503 other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax foreign currency translation adjustments (103 ) (183 ) 210 cash flow hedging gains (losses), net (2 ) 25 (22 ) unrealized gains (losses) on securities, net 45 1 (7 ) defined benefit plans, net (2,120 ) (6,958 ) (545 ) other comprehensive loss, net of tax (2,180 ) (7,115 ) (364 ) comprehensive income 3,956 2,172 6,139 comprehensive (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests 41 (87 ) (318 ) comprehensive income attributable to stockholders $ 3,997 $ 2,085 $ 5,821 reference should be made to the notes to consolidated financial statements. 78 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries consolidated balance sheets (in millions, except share amounts) december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 assets current assets cash and cash equivalents $ 18,422 $ 16,071 marketable securities 8,988 16,148 restricted cash and marketable securities 686 1,005 accounts and notes receivable (net of allowance of $311 and $331) 10,395 9,964 gm financial finance receivables, net (including gross consumer finance receivables transferred to spes of $3,444 and $3,295) 4,044 3,251 inventories 14,714 14,324 equipment on operating leases, net 1,782 2,464 deferred income taxes 9,429 527 other current assets 1,536 1,169 total current assets 69,996 64,923 non-current assets restricted cash and marketable securities 682 1,228 gm financial finance receivables, net (including gross consumer finance receivables transferred to spes of $6,458 and $5,773) 6,954 5,911 equity in net assets of nonconsolidated affiliates 6,883 6,790 property, net 24,196 23,005 goodwill 1,973 29,019 intangible assets, net 6,809 10,014 gm financial equipment on operating leases, net (including assets transferred to spes of $540 and $274) 1,649 785 deferred income taxes 27,922 512 other assets 2,358 2,416 total non-current assets 79,426 79,680 total assets $ 149,422 $ 144,603 liabilities and equity current liabilities accounts payable (principally trade) $ 25,166 $ 24,551 short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt automotive (including certain debt at vies of $228 and $171; note 15) 1,748 1,682 gm financial 3,770 4,118 accrued liabilities (including derivative liabilities at vies of $18 and $44; note 15) 23,308 22,875 total current liabilities 53,992 53,226 non-current liabilities long-term debt automotive (including certain debt at vies of $122 and $7; note 15) 3,424 3,613 gm financial 7,108 4,420 postretirement benefits other than pensions 7,309 6,836 pensions 27,420 25,075 other liabilities and deferred income taxes 13,169 12,442 total non-current liabilities 58,430 52,386 total liabilities 112,422 105,612 commitments and contingencies (note 20) equity preferred stock, $0.01 par value, 2,000,000,000 shares authorized: series a (276,101,695 shares issued and outstanding (each with a $25.00 liquidation preference) at december 31, 2012 and 2011) 5,536 5,536 series b (99,988,796 and 100,000,000 shares issued and outstanding (each with a $50.00 liquidation preference) at december 31, 2012 and 2011) 4,855 4,855 common stock, $0.01 par value (5,000,000,000 shares authorized and 1,366,373,526 shares and 1,564,727,289 shares issued and outstanding at december 31, 2012 and 2011) 14 16 capital surplus (principally additional paid-in capital) 23,834 26,391 retained earnings 10,057 7,183 accumulated other comprehensive loss (8,052 ) (5,861 ) total stockholders' equity 36,244 38,120 noncontrolling interests 756 871 total equity 37,000 38,991 total liabilities and equity $ 149,422 $ 144,603 reference should be made to the notes to consolidated financial statements. 79 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries consolidated statements of cash flows (in millions) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 cash flows from operating activities net income $ 6,136 $ 9,287 $ 6,503 depreciation, impairment charges and amortization expense 38,762 7,427 6,930 foreign currency remeasurement and transaction losses 117 55 210 amortization of discount and issuance costs on debt issues 188 160 135 undistributed earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates and gain on investments (179 ) (1,947 ) (753 ) pension contributions and opeb payments (3,759 ) (2,269 ) (5,723 ) pension and opeb (income) expense, net 3,232 (755 ) 412 (gains) losses on extinguishment of debt 250 (18 ) (196 ) provisions (benefits) for deferred taxes (35,561 ) (318 ) 254 change in other investments and miscellaneous assets (57 ) (155 ) (137 ) change in other operating assets and liabilities (note 30) 687 (3,967 ) (966 ) other operating activities 789 666 111 net cash provided by operating activities 10,605 8,166 6,780 cash flows from investing activities expenditures for property (8,068 ) (6,249 ) (4,202 ) available-for-sale marketable securities, acquisitions (4,650 ) (20,535 ) (11,012 ) trading marketable securities, acquisitions (6,234 ) (6,571 ) (358 ) available-for-sale marketable securities, liquidations 10,519 15,825 5,611 trading marketable securities, liquidations 7,267 660 343 acquisition of companies, net of cash acquired (44 ) (53 ) (3,042 ) increase due to consolidation of business units 63 proceeds from sale of business units/investments, net 18 4,821 317 increase in restricted cash and marketable securities (661 ) (728 ) (918 ) decrease in restricted cash and marketable securities 1,526 2,067 13,915 purchases and originations of finance receivables (6,789 ) (5,012 ) (947 ) principal collections and recoveries on finance receivables 4,674 3,719 871 purchases of leased vehicles, net (1,050 ) (837 ) (11 ) proceeds from termination of leased vehicles 59 47 346 other investing activities (72 ) 106 257 net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (3,505 ) (12,740 ) 1,233 cash flows from financing activities net increase (decrease) in short-term debt (247 ) 131 (1,097 ) proceeds from issuance of debt (original maturities greater than three months) 9,036 9,034 1,886 payments on debt (original maturities greater than three months) (7,377 ) (8,468 ) (12,211 ) proceeds from issuance of stock 4 11 4,857 payments to purchase stock (5,098 ) (1,462 ) payments to acquire noncontrolling interest (100 ) (6 ) debt issuance costs and fees paid for debt modification (120 ) (50 ) (165 ) cash dividends paid (including premium paid on redemption of series a preferred stock) (939 ) (916 ) (1,572 ) net cash used in financing activities (4,741 ) (358 ) (9,770 ) effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (8 ) (253 ) (57 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,351 (5,185 ) (1,814 ) cash and cash equivalents reclassified to assets held for sale 391 cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 16,071 21,256 22,679 cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 18,422 $ 16,071 $ 21,256 reference should be made to the notes to consolidated financial statements. 80 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries consolidated statements of equity (in millions) series a preferred stock series b preferred stock common stockholders' noncontrolling interests total equity common stock capital surplus retained earnings (accumulated deficit) accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) balance december 31, 2009 $ $ $ 15 $ 24,040 $ (4,394 ) $ 1,588 $ 708 $ 21,957 net income 6,172 331 6,503 other comprehensive loss (351 ) (13 ) (364 ) reclassification of series a preferred stock to permanent equity 5,536 5,536 issuance of series b preferred stock 4,855 4,855 dividends declared or paid to noncontrolling interest (85 ) (85 ) repurchase of noncontrolling interest shares 1 (7 ) (6 ) sale of businesses 14 (18 ) (4 ) stock-based compensation 216 216 effect of adoption of amendments to asc 810 regarding variable interest entities 76 76 cash dividends paid on series a preferred stock and cumulative dividends on series b preferred stock and charge related to purchase of series a preferred stock (1,512 ) (1,512 ) other (13 ) (13 ) balance december 31, 2010 5,536 4,855 15 24,257 266 1,251 979 37,159 effect of adoption of amendments in asu 2010-28 regarding goodwill impairment (note 12) (1,466 ) (1,466 ) net income 9,190 97 9,287 other comprehensive loss (7,105 ) (10 ) (7,115 ) purchase of noncontrolling interest shares 41 (7 ) (134 ) (100 ) exercise of common stock warrants 11 11 stock based compensation 219 219 pension plan stock contribution (note 18) 1 1,863 1,864 cash dividends on series a preferred stock and cumulative dividends on series b preferred stock (859 ) (859 ) dividends declared or paid to noncontrolling interest (54 ) (54 ) deconsolidation of noncontrolling interest shares (9 ) (9 ) other 52 2 54 balance december 31, 2011 5,536 4,855 16 26,391 7,183 (5,861 ) 871 38,991 net income (loss) 6,188 (52 ) 6,136 other comprehensive income (loss) (2,191 ) 11 (2,180 ) purchase and retirement of common stock (2 ) (2,652 ) (2,455 ) (5,109 ) exercise of common stock warrants 5 5 stock based compensation 89 89 conversion of series b preferred stock to common stock 1 1 cash dividends on series a preferred stock and cumulative dividends on series b preferred stock (859 ) (859 ) dividends declared or paid to noncontrolling interest (80 ) (80 ) other 6 6 balance december 31, 2012 $ 5,536 $ 4,855 $ 14 $ 23,834 $ 10,057 $ (8,052 ) $ 756 $ 37,000 reference should be made to the notes to consolidated financial statements. 81 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements note 1 . nature of operations general motors company was formed in 2009 originally as a delaware limited liability company, vehicle acquisition holdings llc, and subsequently converted to a delaware corporation, ngmco, inc. this company, which on july 10, 2009 acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of general motors corporation through a section 363 sale under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code (363 sale) and changed its name to general motors company, is sometimes referred to in these consolidated financial statements for the periods on or subsequent to july 10, 2009 as we, our, us, ourselves, the company, general motors, or gm. general motors corporation is sometimes referred to in these consolidated financial statements, for the periods on or before july 9, 2009, as old gm as it is the predecessor entity solely for accounting and financial reporting purposes. old gm was renamed motors liquidation company (mlc), which was dissolved on december 15, 2011 and transferred its remaining assets and liabilities to the motors liquidation company guc trust (guc trust). we design, build and sell cars, trucks and automobile parts worldwide. we also provide automotive financing services through general motors financial company, inc. (gm financial). we analyze the results of our business through our five segments: gm north america (gmna), gm europe (gme), gm international operations (gmio), gm south america (gmsa) and gm financial. nonsegment operations are classified as corporate. corporate includes investments in ally financial, inc. (ally financial), certain centrally recorded income and costs, such as interest, income taxes and corporate expenditures and certain nonsegment specific revenues and expenses. note 2. basis of presentation principles of consolidation the consolidated financial statements include our accounts and those of our subsidiaries that we control due to ownership of a majority voting interest and our consolidated variable interest entities (vies) of which we are the primary beneficiary. we continually evaluate our involvement with vies to determine whether we have variable interests and are the primary beneficiary of the vie. when these criteria are met, we are required to consolidate the vie. our share of earnings or losses of nonconsolidated affiliates is included in our consolidated operating results using the equity method of accounting when we are able to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial decisions of the affiliate. we use the cost method of accounting if we are not able to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial decisions of the affiliate. all intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. use of estimates in the preparation of the financial statements the consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with u.s. gaap, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets and liabilities at the reporting date and the amounts of revenue and expenses in the periods presented. we believe that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, due to the inherent uncertainties in making estimates actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. gm financial the amounts presented for gm financial have been adjusted to include the effect of our tax attributes on gm financial's deferred tax positions and provision for income taxes since the date of acquisition, which are not applicable to gm financial on a stand-alone basis, and to eliminate the effect of transactions between gm financial and the other members of the consolidated group. accordingly, the amounts presented will differ from those presented by gm financial on a stand-alone basis. change in presentation of financial statements in 2012 we changed the presentation of our consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statements of cash flows and certain notes to the consolidated financial statements to classify the assets and liabilities of gm financial as current or non-current and to combine line items which were either of a related nature or not individually material. we have made corresponding reclassifications to the comparable information for all periods presented. 82 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) venezuelan exchange regulations our venezuelan subsidiaries changed their functional currency from bolivar fuerte (bsf), the local currency, to the u.s. dollar, our reporting currency, on january 1, 2010 because of the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. in january 2010 there was a devaluation of the venezuelan currency and establishment of dual fixed exchange rates, an essential rate and a nonessential rate. in june 2010 the venezuelan government introduced additional foreign currency exchange control regulations, which imposed restrictions on the use of the parallel foreign currency exchange market, thereby making it more difficult to convert bsf to u.s. dollars. the restrictions on the foreign currency exchange market affect our venezuelan subsidiaries' ability to pay non-bsf denominated obligations that do not qualify to be processed by the venezuela currency exchange agency at the official exchange rates as well as our ability to fully benefit from these operations. effective january 1, 2011 the bsf was further devalued and the essential rate was eliminated. the devaluation has affected results of operations from that date forward because our venezuelan subsidiaries no longer realize gains that result from favorable foreign currency exchanges processed by the venezuela currency exchange agency at the essential rate. the aggregate net assets of our venezuelan subsidiaries at december 31, 2012 and 2011 were $786 million and $438 million . at december 31, 2012 and 2011 other consolidated entities have receivables from our venezuelan subsidiaries of $379 million and $380 million . the total amounts pending government approval for settlement at december 31, 2012 and 2011 were bsf 2.2 billion (equivalent to $523 million ) and bsf 2.3 billion (equivalent to $535 million ), for which some requests have been pending from 2007. in february 2013 the venezuelan government announced that the official fixed exchange rate of bsf 4.3 to $1.00 would be changed to bsf 6.3 to $1.00 . the devaluation did not have an effect on the 2012 consolidated financial statements; however, the devaluation will require remeasurement of our venezuelan subsidiaries' non-u.s. dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities in the three months ending march 31, 2013. the devaluation effective date is february 13, 2013 and is expected to result in a charge in the range of $150 million to $200 million . note 3. significant accounting policies the accounting policies which follow are utilized by our automotive and automotive financing operations, unless otherwise indicated. revenue recognition automotive automotive sales and revenue are primarily composed of revenue generated from the sale of vehicles. vehicle sales are recorded when title and all risks and rewards of ownership have passed to our customers. for the majority of our automotive sales, this occurs when a vehicle is released to the carrier responsible for transporting to a dealer and when collectability is reasonably assured. vehicle sales are recorded when the vehicle is delivered to the dealer in most remaining cases. provisions for recurring dealer and customer sales and leasing incentives, consisting of allowances and rebates, are recorded as reductions to automotive sales and revenue at the time of vehicle sales. all other incentives, allowances, and rebates related to vehicles previously sold are recorded as reductions to automotive sales and revenue when announced. vehicle sales to daily rental car companies with guaranteed repurchase obligations are accounted for as operating leases. estimated lease revenue is recorded ratably over the estimated term of the lease based on the difference between net sales proceeds and the guaranteed repurchase amount. the difference between the cost of the vehicle and estimated residual value is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated term of the lease. automotive financing - gm financial finance income earned on receivables is recognized using the effective interest method. fees and commissions (including incentive payments) received and direct costs of originating loans are deferred and amortized over the term of the related finance 83 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) receivables using the effective interest method and are removed from the consolidated balance sheets when the related finance receivables are sold, charged off or paid in full. accrual of finance charge income is suspended on accounts that are more than 60 days delinquent, accounts in bankruptcy, and accounts in repossession. payments received on nonaccrual loans are first applied to any fees due, then to any interest due and then any remaining amounts are recorded to principal. interest accrual resumes once an account has received payments bringing the delinquency to less than 60 days past due. income from operating lease assets, which includes lease origination fees, net of lease origination costs and incentives, is recorded as operating lease revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease agreement. advertising and promotion expense the following table summarizes advertising and promotion expenditures, which are expensed as incurred (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 advertising and promotion expense $ 5,372 $ 5,209 $ 4,742 research and development expenditures the following table summarizes research and development expenditures, which are expensed as incurred (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 research and development expense $ 7,368 $ 8,124 $ 6,962 cash equivalents cash equivalents are defined as short-term, highly-liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. allowance for doubtful accounts automotive the following table summarizes activity in our allowance for doubtful accounts (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 balance at beginning of period $ 331 $ 252 $ 250 amounts charged (credited) to costs and expenses (10 ) 159 93 other 36 3 deductions (46 ) (83 ) (91 ) balance at end of period $ 311 $ 331 $ 252 fair value measurements a three-level valuation hierarchy, based upon observable and unobservable inputs, is used for fair value measurements. observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect market assumptions based on the best evidence available. these two types of inputs create the following fair value hierarchy: level 1 - quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets; level 2 - quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations whose significant inputs are observable; and 84 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) level 3 - instruments whose significant inputs are unobservable . financial instruments are transferred in and/or out of level 1, 2 or 3 at the beginning of the accounting period in which there is a change in the valuation inputs. marketable securities we classify marketable securities as available-for-sale or trading. various factors, including turnover of holdings and investment guidelines, are considered in determining the classification of securities. available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses recorded, net of related income taxes, in accumulated other comprehensive income until realized. trading securities are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in interest income and other non-operating income, net. we determine realized gains and losses for all securities using the specific identification method. we measure the fair value of our marketable securities using a market approach where identical or comparable prices are available, and an income approach in other cases. securities are classified in level 1 when quoted prices in an active market for identical securities are available. if quoted market prices are not available, fair values of securities are determined using prices from a pricing service, pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flow models and are generally classified in level 2. these prices represent non-binding quotes. u.s. government and agency securities, sovereign debt, certificates of deposit, and corporate debt securities are classified as level 2. our pricing vendor utilizes industry-standard pricing models that consider various inputs, including benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads and benchmark securities as well as other relevant economic measures. we conduct an annual review of our pricing service. this review includes discussion and analysis of the inputs used by the pricing service to provide prices for the types of securities we hold. these inputs include prices for comparable securities, bid/ask quotes, interest rate yields, and prepayment speeds. based on our review we believe the prices received from our pricing service are a reliable representation of exit prices. securities are classified in level 3 in certain cases where there are unobservable inputs to the valuation in the marketplace. level 3 financial instruments typically include, in addition to the unobservable inputs, observable components that are validated to external sources. an evaluation is made quarterly to determine if unrealized losses related to non-trading investments in securities are other-than- temporary. factors considered in determining whether a loss on a marketable security is other-than-temporary include: (1) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been below cost; (2) the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; and (3) the intent to sell or likelihood to be forced to sell the security before any anticipated recovery. finance receivables pre-acquisition consumer finance receivables finance receivables originated prior to the acquisition of americredit corp. (americredit) were adjusted to fair value at october 1, 2010. as a result of the acquisition the allowance for loan losses at october 1, 2010 was eliminated and a net discount was recorded on the receivables. the fair value of the receivables was less than the principal amount of those receivables, thus resulting in a discount to par. this discount was attributable, in part, to future credit losses that did not exist at the origination of the receivables. a non-accretable difference is the excess between a loan's contractually required payments (undiscounted amount of all uncollected principal and contractual interest payments, both past due and scheduled for the future) and the amount of the loan's cash flows expected to be collected. an accretable yield is the excess in the loan's cash flows expected to be collected over the initial investment in the loan, which at october 1, 2010 was fair value. as a result of acquisition accounting gm financial evaluated the common risk characteristics of the loan portfolio and split it into several pools. gm financial's policy is to remove a charged off loan individually from a pool based on comparing any amount received with its contractual amount. any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the non-accretable difference. this removal method assumes that the amount received approximates pool performance expectations. the remaining accretable yield balance is unaffected and any material change in remaining effective yield caused by this removal method is addressed by gm financial's quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each pool. for loans that are resolved by payment in full there is no release of the non-accretable difference for the pool because there is no difference between the amount received and the contractual amount of the loan. 85 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) any deterioration in the performance of the pre-acquisition receivables will result in recording an incremental provision for loan losses. improvements in the performance of the pre-acquisition receivables which results in a significant increase in actual or expected cash flows will result first in the reversal of any incremental related allowance for loan losses and then in a transfer of the excess from the non-accretable difference to accretable yield, which will be recorded as finance charge income over the remaining life of the receivables. post-acquisition consumer finance receivables and allowance for loan losses finance receivables originated after the acquisition of americredit are carried at amortized cost, net of allowance for loan losses. provisions for loan losses are charged to operations in amounts sufficient to maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level considered adequate to cover probable credit losses inherent in gm financial's post-acquisition finance receivables. the allowance for loan losses is established systematically based on the determination of the amount of probable credit losses inherent in the post-acquisition finance receivables as of the balance sheet date. gm financial reviews charge-off experience factors, delinquency reports, historical collection rates, estimates of the value of the underlying collateral, economic trends, such as unemployment rates, and other information in order to make the necessary judgments as to probable credit losses. gm financial also uses historical charge-off experience to determine a loss confirmation period, which is defined as the time between when an event, such as delinquency status, giving rise to a probable credit loss occurs with respect to a specific account and when such account is charged off. this loss confirmation period is applied to the forecasted probable credit losses to determine the amount of losses inherent in finance receivables at the balance sheet date. assumptions regarding credit losses and loss confirmation periods are reviewed periodically and may be impacted by actual performance of finance receivables and changes in any of the factors discussed above. should the credit loss assumption or loss confirmation period increase, there would be an increase in the amount of allowance for loan losses required, which would decrease the net carrying value of finance receivables and increase the amount of provision for loan losses recorded on the consolidated statements of operations. inventory inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. market, which represents selling price less cost to sell, considers general market and economic conditions, periodic reviews of current profitability of vehicles, product warranty costs and the effect of current incentive offers at the balance sheet date. market for off-lease and other vehicles is current auction sales proceeds less disposal and warranty costs. productive material, work in process, supplies and service parts are reviewed to determine if inventory quantities are in excess of forecasted usage, or if they have become obsolete. equipment on operating leases, net equipment on operating leases, net is reported at cost, less accumulated depreciation, net of origination fees or costs, and lease incentives. estimated income from operating lease assets, which includes lease origination fees, net of lease origination costs, is recorded as operating lease revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease agreement. depreciation of vehicles is provided on a straight-line basis to an estimated residual value over the term of the lease agreement. we have significant investments in vehicles in operating lease portfolios, which are composed of vehicle leases to retail customers with lease terms of up to 60 months and vehicles leased to rental car companies with lease terms that average nine months or less. we are exposed to changes in the residual values of those assets. for impairment purposes, the residual values represent estimates of the values of the vehicles leased at the end of the lease contracts and are determined based on forecasted auction proceeds when there is a reliable basis to make such a determination. realization of the residual values is dependent on the future ability to market the vehicles under the prevailing market conditions. the adequacy of the estimate of the residual value is evaluated over the life of the lease and adjustments may be made to the extent the expected value of the vehicle at lease termination changes. adjustments may be in the form of revisions to the depreciation rate or recognition of an impairment charge. impairment is determined to exist if the expected future cash flows, which include estimated residual values, are lower than the carrying amount of the vehicles leased. if the carrying amount is considered impaired, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. fair value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows, including estimated residual values. in our automotive operations when a leased vehicle is returned the asset is reclassified from equipment on operating leases, 86 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) net to inventories at the lower of cost or estimated selling price, less cost to sell. in our automotive finance operations when a leased vehicle is returned or repossessed the asset is recorded in other assets at the lower of cost or estimated selling price, less costs to sell. upon disposition a gain or loss is recorded for any difference between the net book value of the lease asset and the proceeds from the disposition of the asset. impairment charges related to equipment on operating leases, net are recorded in automotive cost of sales or gm financial operating and other expenses. valuation of cost and equity method investments when events and circumstances warrant, investments accounted for under the cost or equity method of accounting are evaluated for impairment. an impairment charge is recorded whenever a decline in value of an investment below its carrying amount is determined to be other-than-temporary. in determining if a decline is other-than-temporary, factors such as the length of time and extent to which the fair value of the investment has been less than the carrying amount of the investment, the near-term and longer-term operating and financial prospects of the affiliate and the intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery are considered. impairment charges related to equity method investments are recorded in equity income, net of tax and gain on investments. impairment charges related to cost method investments are recorded in interest income and other non-operating income, net. property, net property, plant and equipment, including internal use software, is recorded at cost. major improvements that extend the useful life or add functionality of property are capitalized. the gross amount of assets under capital leases is included in property, plant and equipment. expenditures for repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. we depreciate all depreciable property using the straight-line method. leasehold improvements are amortized over the period of lease or the life of the asset, whichever is shorter. the amortization of the assets under capital leases is included in depreciation expense. upon retirement or disposition of property, plant and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any resulting gain or loss is recorded in earnings. impairment charges related to property are recorded in automotive cost of sales, automotive selling, general and administrative expense or gm financial operating and other expenses. special tools special tools represent product-specific powertrain and non-powertrain related tools, dies, molds and other items used in the vehicle manufacturing process. expenditures for special tools are recorded at cost and are capitalized. we amortize all non-powertrain special tools over their estimated useful lives using an accelerated amortization method. we amortize powertrain special tools over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. impairment charges related to special tools are recorded in automotive cost of sales. goodwill goodwill arises from the application of fresh-start reporting and acquisitions accounted for as business combinations. goodwill is tested for impairment for all reporting units on an annual basis during the fourth quarter, or more frequently, if events occur or circumstances change that would warrant such a review. when the fair value of a reporting unit falls below its carrying amount an impairment charge is recorded for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. fair values of reporting units are established using a discounted cash flow method. where available and as appropriate, comparative market multiples and the quoted market price for our common stock are used to corroborate the results of the discounted cash flow method. our reporting units are gmna, gme, gm financial and various reporting units within the gmio and gmsa segments. due to the integrated nature of our manufacturing operations and the sharing of assets, other resources and vehicle platforms among brands within gmna and gme and because financial information by brand or country is not discrete below the operating segment level, gmna and gme do not contain reporting units below the operating segment level. gm financial also does not contain reporting units below the operating segment level. gmio and gmsa are less integrated given the lack of regional trade pacts and other unique geographical differences and thus contain separate reporting units below the operating segment level. goodwill would be reassigned on a relative-fair-value basis to a portion of a reporting unit to be disposed of or upon the reorganization of the composition of one or more of our reporting units, unless the reporting unit was never integrated. intangible assets, net 87 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) intangible assets, excluding goodwill, primarily include brand names (including defensive intangibles associated with discontinued brands), technology and intellectual property, customer relationships and dealer networks. intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line or an accelerated method of amortization over their estimated useful lives. an accelerated amortization method reflecting the pattern in which the asset will be consumed is utilized if that pattern can be reliably determined. if that pattern cannot be reliably determined, a straight-line amortization method is used. we consider the period of expected cash flows and underlying data used to measure the fair value of the intangible assets when selecting a useful life. impairment charges related to intangible assets are recorded in automotive selling, general and administrative expense or automotive cost of sales. amortization of developed technology and intellectual property is recorded in automotive cost of sales. amortization of brand names, customer relationships and our dealer networks is recorded in automotive selling, general and administrative expense or gm financial operating and other expenses. valuation of long-lived assets the carrying amount of long-lived assets and finite-lived intangible assets to be held and used in the business are evaluated for impairment when events and circumstances warrant. if the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group is considered impaired, a loss is recorded based on the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds fair value. product-specific long-lived asset groups are tested for impairment at the platform or vehicle line level. non-product specific long-lived assets are tested for impairment on a reporting unit basis in gmna, gme, and gm financial and tested at or within our various reporting units within our gmio and gmsa segments. fair value is determined using either the market or sales comparison approach, cost approach or anticipated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved. long-lived assets to be disposed of other than by sale are considered held for use until disposition. product-specific assets may become impaired as a result of declines in profitability due to changes in volume, pricing or costs. pension and other postretirement plans attribution, methods and assumptions the cost of benefits provided by defined benefit pension plans is recorded in the period employees provide service. the cost of pension plan amendments that provide for benefits already earned by plan participants is amortized over the expected period of benefit which may be: (1) the duration of the applicable collective bargaining agreement specific to the plan; (2) expected future working lifetime; or (3) the life expectancy of the plan participants. the cost of medical, dental, legal service and life insurance benefits provided through postretirement benefit plans is recorded in the period employees provide service. the cost of postretirement plan amendments that provide for benefits already earned by plan participants is amortized over the expected period of benefit which may be the average period to full eligibility or the average life expectancy of the plan participants, or the period to the plan's termination date for the plan which provides legal services. an expected return on plan asset methodology is utilized to calculate future pension expense for certain significant funded benefit plans. a market-related value of plan assets methodology is also utilized that averages gains and losses on the plan assets over a period of years to determine future pension expense. the methodology recognizes 60% of the difference between the fair value of assets and the expected calculated value in the first year and 10% of that difference over each of the next four years. the discount rate assumption is established for each of the retirement-related benefit plans at their respective measurement dates. in the u.s. we use a cash flow matching approach that uses projected cash flows matched to spot rates along a high quality corporate yield curve to determine the present value of cash flows to calculate a single equivalent discount rate. the benefit obligation for pension plans in canada, the united kingdom and germany represents 92% of the non-u.s. pension benefit obligation at december 31, 2012 . the discount rates for plans in canada, the united kingdom and germany are determined using a cash flow matching approach, similar to the u.s. approach. in countries other than the u.s., canada, united kingdom and those located in the eurozone discount rates are established depending on the local financial markets, using a high quality yield curve based on local bonds, a yield curve adjusted to reflect 88 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) local conditions using foreign currency swaps or local actuarial standards. plan asset valuation cash equivalents and other short-term investments money market funds and other similar short-term investment funds are valued using the net asset value per share (nav) as provided by the investment sponsor or third-party administrator. prices for short-term debt securities are received from independent pricing services or from dealers who make markets in such securities. independent pricing services utilize matrix pricing which considers readily available inputs such as the yield or price of bonds of comparable quality, coupon, maturity and type as well as dealer supplied prices. money market mutual funds which provide investors with the ability to redeem their interests on a daily basis and for which navs are publicly available are classified in level 1. other cash equivalents and short-term investments are classified in level 2. common and preferred stock common and preferred stock for which market prices are readily available at the measurement date, are valued at the last reported sale price or official closing price on the primary market or exchange on which they are actively traded and are classified in level 1. such equity securities for which the market is not considered to be active are valued via the use of observable inputs, which may include, among others, the use of adjusted market prices last available, bids or last available sales prices and/or other observable inputs and are classified in level 2. common and preferred stock classified in level 3 are those privately issued securities or other issues that are valued via the use of valuation models using significant unobservable inputs that generally consider among others, aged (stale) pricing, earnings multiples, discounted cash flows and/or other qualitative and quantitative factors. we may consider other security attributes such as liquidity and market activity in assessing the observability of inputs used by pricing services or dealers, which may affect classification in the fair value hierarchy. government, agency and corporate debt securities u.s. government and government agency obligations, foreign government and government agency obligations, municipal securities, supranational obligations, corporate bonds, bank notes, and preferred securities are valued based on quotations received from independent pricing services or from dealers who make markets in such securities. debt securities which are priced via the use of pricing services that utilize matrix pricing which considers readily observable inputs such as the yield or price of bonds of comparable quality, coupon, maturity and type as well as dealer supplied prices, are classified in level 2. securities within this category that are typically priced by dealers and pricing services via the use of proprietary pricing models which incorporate significant unobservable inputs are classified in level 3. these inputs primarily consist of yield and credit spread assumptions. we may consider other security attributes such as liquidity, market activity, price level, credit ratings and geo-political risk in assessing the observability of inputs used by pricing services or dealers, which may affect classification. agency and non-agency mortgage and other asset-backed securities u.s. and foreign government agency mortgage and asset-backed securities, non-agency collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial mortgage securities, residential mortgage securities and other asset-backed securities are valued based on quotations received from independent pricing services or from dealers who make markets in such securities. securities which are priced via the use of pricing services that utilize matrix pricing which considers readily observable inputs such as prepayment speed assumptions, attributes of the collateral, yield or price of bonds of comparable quality, coupon, maturity and type as well as dealer supplied prices are classified in level 2. securities within this category that are typically priced by dealers and pricing services via the use of proprietary pricing models which incorporate significant unobservable inputs are classified in level 3. these inputs primarily consist of prepayment curves, discount rates, default assumptions and recovery rates. we may consider other security attributes such as liquidity, market activity, price level and other factors in assessing the observability of inputs used by pricing services or dealers, which may affect classification. investment funds, private equity and debt investments and real estate investments investments in exchange traded funds, real estate investment trusts and mutual funds, for which market quotations are generally readily available, are valued at the last reported sale price, official closing price or publicly available nav (or its equivalent) on the primary market or exchange on which they are traded, and are classified in level 1. investments in private investment funds 89 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) (including hedge funds, private equity funds and real estate funds) are generally valued based on their respective nav (or its equivalent), as a practical expedient to estimate fair value due to the absence of readily available market prices. investments in private investment funds, which may be fully redeemed at nav in the near-term are generally classified in level 2. investments in funds, which may not be fully redeemed at nav in the near-term, are generally classified in level 3. direct investments in private equity, private debt and real estate securities, are generally valued in good faith via the use of the market approach (earnings multiples from comparable companies) or the income approach (discounted cash flow techniques), and consider inputs such as revenue growth and gross margin assumptions, discount rates, discounts for lack of liquidity, market capitalization rates, and the selection of comparable companies. as these valuations incorporate significant unobservable inputs they are classified as level 3. fair value estimates for private investment funds, private equity, private debt, and real estate investments are provided by the respective investment sponsors or investment advisers and are subsequently reviewed and approved by management. in the event management concludes a reported nav or fair value estimate (collectively, external valuation) does not reflect fair value or is not determined as of the financial reporting measurement date, we will consider whether an adjustment is necessary. in determining whether an adjustment to the external valuation is required, we will review material factors that could affect the valuation, such as changes to the composition or performance of the underlying investment(s) or comparable investments, overall market conditions, expected sale prices for private investments which are probable of being sold in the short term, and other economic factors that may possibly have a favorable or unfavorable effect on the reported external valuation. we may adjust the external valuation to ensure fair value as of the balance sheet date. derivatives exchange traded derivatives, such as options and futures, for which market quotations are readily available, are valued at the last reported sale price or official closing price on the primary market or exchange on which they are traded and are classified in level 1. over-the-counter derivatives, including but not limited to swaps, swaptions and forwards, which are typically valued through independent pricing services with observable inputs are generally classified in level 2. derivatives classified in level 3 are typically valued via the use of pricing models which incorporate significant unobservable inputs, but may also include derivatives which are valued with the use of significant observable inputs which are not subject to corroboration. the inputs part of the model based valuations may include extrapolated or model-derived assumptions such as volatilities and yield and credit spread assumptions. due to the lack of timely available market information for certain investments in the asset classes described above as well as the inherent uncertainty of valuation, reported fair values may differ from fair values that would have been used had timely available market information been available. extended disability benefits estimated extended disability benefits are accrued ratably over the employee's active service period using measurement provisions similar to those used to measure our other postretirement benefits (opeb) obligations. the liability is composed of the future obligations for income replacement, healthcare costs and life insurance premiums for employees currently disabled and those in the active workforce who may become disabled. future disabilities are estimated in the current workforce using actuarial methods based on historical experience. we record actuarial gains and losses immediately in earnings. labor force on a worldwide basis, we have a concentration of the workforce working under the guidelines of unionized collective bargaining agreements. at december 31, 2012 50,000 of our u.s. employees (or 62% ) were represented by unions, the majority of which were represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agriculture implement workers of america (uaw). the current labor contract with the uaw is effective for a four-year term that began in october 2011 and expires in september 2015. the contract included a $5,000 lump sum payment to each eligible uaw employee in the year ended december 31, 2011 and three additional lump-sum payments of $ 1,000 to be paid annually in the years ending december 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014. these lump-sum payments expected to total $381 million are being amortized over the four-year contract period. job security programs 90 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) effective with our current labor agreement with the uaw the job opportunity bank program was eliminated and the supplemental unemployment benefit (sub) program and the transitional support program (tsp) were retained. these modified job security programs provide employees reduced wages and continued coverage under certain employee benefit programs depending on the employee's classification as well as the number of years of service that the employee has accrued. a similar tiered benefit is provided to canadian auto workers union (caw) employees. we recognize a liability for these sub/tsp benefits over the expected service period of employees, based on our best estimate of the probable liability at the measurement date. stock incentive plans we measure and record compensation expense for all share-based payment awards based on the award's estimated fair value which is the fair value of our common stock on the date of grant, or for restricted stock units (rsus) granted prior to our public offering, the fair value of our common stock as of the date of the public offering. we record compensation cost for the awards on a straight-line basis over the entire vesting period, or for retirement eligible employees over the requisite service period. salary stock awards granted are fully vested and nonforfeitable upon grant; therefore, compensation cost is recorded on the date of grant. the liability for stock incentive plan awards settled in cash is remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period. policy, product warranty and recall campaigns the estimated costs related to policy and product warranties are accrued at the time products are sold and are charged to automotive cost of sales. these estimates are established using historical information on the nature, frequency and average cost of claims of each vehicle line or each model year of the vehicle line and assumptions about future activity and events. revisions are made when necessary, based on changes in these factors. trends of claims are actively studied and actions are taken to improve vehicle quality and minimize claims. the estimated costs related to product recalls are based on a formal campaign soliciting return of that product are accrued when they are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. income taxes the liability method is used in accounting for income taxes. deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements, using the statutory tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recorded in the results of operations in the period that includes the enactment date under the law. deferred income tax assets are evaluated quarterly to determine if valuation allowances are required or should be adjusted. we establish valuation allowances for deferred tax assets based on a more likely than not standard. the ability to realize deferred tax assets depends on the ability to generate sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods provided for in the tax law for each applicable tax jurisdiction. we consider the following possible sources of taxable income when assessing the realization of deferred tax assets: future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences; future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; taxable income in prior carryback years; and tax-planning strategies. the assessment regarding whether a valuation allowance is required or should be adjusted also considers all available positive and negative evidence factors, including but not limited to: nature, frequency, and severity of recent losses; duration of statutory carryforward periods; 91 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) historical experience with tax attributes expiring unused; and near- and medium-term financial outlook. it is difficult to conclude a valuation allowance is not required when there is significant objective and verifiable negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. we utilize a rolling three years of actual and current year anticipated results as the primary measure of cumulative losses in recent years. income tax expense (benefit) for the year is allocated between continuing operations and other categories of income such as discontinued operations or other comprehensive income (loss). in periods in which there is a pre-tax loss from continuing operations and pre-tax income in another income category, the tax benefit allocated to continuing operations is determined by taking into account the pre-tax income of other categories. we record uncertain tax positions on the basis of a two-step process whereby: (1) we determine whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained based on the technical merits of the position; and (2) for those tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition, we recognize the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. we record interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions in income tax expense (benefit). derivative instruments we are party to a variety of foreign currency exchange rate, commodity, interest rate swap and interest rate cap derivative contracts entered into in connection with the management of exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. in connection with certain long-term supply contracts that we have entered into, we have identified embedded derivatives which we have bifurcated for valuation and accounting purposes. gm financial is exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in interest rates due to floating interest rate exposure on its credit facilities and on certain securitization notes payable. gm financial's special purpose entities (spes) are contractually required to purchase derivative instruments as credit enhancements in connection with securitization transactions and credit facilities. these financial exposures and contractual requirements are managed in accordance with corporate policies and procedures and a risk management control system is used to assist in monitoring hedging programs, derivative positions and hedging strategies. hedging documentation includes hedging objectives, practices and procedures and the related accounting treatment. the accounting for changes in the fair value of each derivative financial instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as an accounting hedge, as well as the type of hedging relationship identified. derivative financial instruments entered into by our automotive operations are not designated in hedging relationships. certain of the derivatives entered into by gm financial have been designated in cash flow hedging relationships. derivatives that receive hedge accounting treatment are evaluated for effectiveness at the time they are designated as well as throughout the hedging period. we do not hold derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. all derivatives are recorded at fair value and presented gross in the consolidated balance sheets. internal models are used to value a majority of derivatives. the models use, as their basis, readily observable market inputs, such as time value, forward interest rates, volatility factors and current and forward market prices for foreign currency exchange rates and commodities. we estimate our nonperformance risk using our corporate credit rating, the rating on our secured revolver, and yields on traded bonds of companies with comparable credit ratings and risk profiles. derivative contracts that are valued based upon models with significant unobservable market inputs, primarily price, are classified in level 3. we record the earnings effect resulting from the change in fair value of automotive operations derivative instruments in interest income and other non-operating income, net. we record the earnings effect resulting from the change in fair value of derivative instruments entered into by gm financial in gm financial operating and other expenses. effective changes in fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in cash flow hedging gains (losses), net within a separate component of other comprehensive income (oci). amounts are reclassified from accumulated other 92 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) comprehensive income when the underlying hedged item affects earnings. all ineffective changes in fair value are recorded in earnings. we also discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when it is determined that a derivative instrument has ceased to be effective as an accounting hedge or if the underlying hedged cash flow is no longer probable of occurring. we enter into contracts with counterparties that we believe are creditworthy and generally settle on a net basis. we perform a quarterly assessment of our counterparty credit risk, including a review of credit ratings, credit default swap rates and potential nonperformance of the counterparty. based on our most recent quarterly assessment of our counterparty credit risk, we consider this risk to be low. the cash flows from derivative instruments are classified in the same categories as the hedged items in the consolidated statement of cash flows. foreign currency transactions and translation the assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, that use the local currency as their functional currency, are translated to u.s. dollars based on the current exchange rate prevailing at each balance sheet date and any resulting translation adjustments are included in accumulated other comprehensive income. the assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries whose local currency is not their functional currency are remeasured from their local currency to their functional currency, and then translated to u.s. dollars. revenues and expenses are translated into u.s. dollars using the average exchange rates prevailing for each period presented. gains and losses arising from foreign currency transactions and the effects of remeasurements discussed in the preceding paragraph are recorded in automotive cost of sales and gm financial operating and other expenses unless related to automotive debt, which are recorded in interest income and other non-operating income, net. the following table summarizes the effects of foreign currency transactions and remeasurement (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses $ 117 $ 55 $ 210 recently adopted accounting principles in 2012 we adopted the provisions of accounting standards update (asu) 2011-05, presentation of comprehensive income (asu 2011-05) that requires presentation of all non-owner changes in equity in one continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. we elected to provide a separate statement of comprehensive income for all periods presented. the amendments in this update do not change the items that must be reported in oci or when an oci item must be reclassified to net income. the adoption of asu 2011-05 did not affect our consolidated statements of financial position, results of operations and cash flows. asu 2011-05 was modified in december 2011 by the issuance of asu 2011-12, deferral of the effective date for amendments to the presentation of reclassifications of items out of accumulated other comprehensive income in accounting standards update no. 2011-05. this update indefinitely defers certain provisions of asu 2011-05 that require the disclosure of the amount of reclassifications of items from oci to net income by component of net income and by component of oci. note 4. acquisition and disposal of businesses sale of general motors strasbourg s.a.s. in december 2012 we entered into a definitive agreement to sell 100% of our equity interest of general motors strasbourg s.a.s. (gms), which was included in our gme segment, for cash of one euro to an external third-party. gms is engaged in the business of developing and manufacturing automatic transmissions for luxury and performance light automotive vehicles. we acquired gms in october 2010 as subsequently discussed. gms's assets and liabilities were adjusted to their estimated fair value of one euro upon entering into the definitive agreement. the resulting charge of $119 million was recorded in interest income and other non-operating income, net. in january 2013 we completed the sale of gms. gms's assets, composed primarily of accounts 93 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) receivable and inventories, and its liabilities composed primarily of accounts payable and accrued liabilities were classified as held for sale and were included in current assets and current liabilities. definitive agreement to acquire certain ally financial international operations in november 2012 gm financial entered into an agreement with ally financial to acquire 100% of the outstanding equity interests of its automotive finance and financial services operations in europe and latin america and a separate agreement to acquire ally financial's non-controlling equity interests in gmac-saic automotive finance company limited (gmac-saic), which conducts automotive finance and other financial services in china. the combined consideration will be approximately $4.2 billion in cash, subject to certain closing adjustments. these transactions will enable gm financial to provide automotive finance and other financial services to customers in european, latin american and chinese markets. the closings of the transactions contemplated by the agreements are subject to satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including obtaining applicable regulatory approvals and third-party consents and other customary closing conditions, and are expected to close in stages throughout 2013. acquisition of saic gm investment limited in september 2012 saic motor hong kong investment limited (saic-hk) exercised its option to not participate in future capital injections to saic gm investment limited, the holding company of general motors india private limited and chevrolet sales india private limited (collectively hkjv). we agreed with saic-hk to settle a promissory note due from hkjv to us in exchange for hkjv's issuance of 257 million class b shares at face value of $1.17 per share. saic-hk's equity interest in hkjv was diluted from 50% to 14% and we obtained control of hkjv with an 86% interest and consolidated hkjv effective september 1, 2012. we recognized a gain of $51 million measured as the difference between the fair value of our 50% interest in hkjv and the investment carrying amount at the date of acquisition of which $50 million was recorded in equity income, net of tax and gain on investments. in addition we invested $125 million in hkjv and acquired 186 million class a shares at face value of $0.6708 per share, which increased our interest in hkjv from 86% to 90.8% . refer to note 10 for additional details on our investment in hkjv prior to acquisition. the following table summarizes the consideration paid and the hkjv assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which are included in our gmio segment (dollars in millions): september 1, 2012 consideration fair value of our previously held investment $ 74 consideration paid for shanghai automotive industry corporation's (saic) portion of the promissory note 150 settlement of written put option (94 ) total consideration $ 130 fair value of the noncontrolling interest $ 21 assets acquired and liabilities assumed cash $ 17 accounts receivable 124 inventory 132 other current assets 13 property 385 goodwill 61 other non-current assets 59 current liabilities (483 ) non-current liabilities (157 ) $ 151 94 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) when applying the acquisition method of accounting deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances give rise to goodwill, which is a residual. none of the goodwill from this transaction is deductible for tax purposes. we did not provide pro forma financial information because we do not believe the information is material. acquisition of gmac south america llc in march 2012 we acquired from ally financial for cash of $29 million 100% of the outstanding equity interests of gmac south america llc whose only asset is gmac de venezuela ca (gmac venezuela) comprising the business and operations of ally financial in venezuela. this acquisition provides us with a captive finance offering in venezuela which we believe is important in maintaining market position and will provide continued sources of financing for our venezuela dealers and customers. we recorded the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of march 1, 2012, the date we obtained control, and have included gmac venezuela's results of operations and cash flows from that date forward. the following table summarizes the amounts recorded in connection with the acquisition of gmac venezuela, which are included in our gmsa segment (dollars in millions): march 1, 2012 cash $ 79 other assets 11 liabilities (11 ) bargain purchase gain (50 ) consideration paid $ 29 we determined the excess of net assets acquired over consideration paid was attributable to the measurement differences between the bsf denominated assets and liabilities valued using the official foreign exchange rate, as required by u.s. gaap, and the enterprise value which has been discounted to reflect the uncertainty surrounding our ability to convert the bsf to u.s. dollars and the risks of operating in a politically unstable country. the measurement differences do not qualify to be recorded in the application of the acquisition method of accounting, and we recorded the excess of net assets acquired over the consideration paid as a bargain purchase gain. the bargain purchase gain was recorded in interest income and other non-operating income, net. we did not provide pro forma financial information because we do not believe the information is material. acquisition of additional gm korea interests in march 2011 we completed the acquisition of an additional 6.9% interest in gm korea company (gm korea) for cash of $100 million . the transaction was accounted for as an equity transaction as we retain the controlling financial interest in gm korea. this transaction reduced our equity attributable to noncontrolling interests by $134 million and our accumulated other comprehensive income by $7 million and increased our capital surplus by $41 million . we now own 77.0% of the outstanding shares of gm korea. acquisition of americredit in october 2010 we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interests of americredit, an automotive finance company, renamed general motors financial company, inc., for cash of $3.5 billion . this acquisition allows us to provide a more complete range of financing options to our customers across the u.s. and canada, specifically focusing on providing additional capabilities in leasing and sub-prime vehicle financing options. the following table summarizes the consideration paid, acquisition-related costs, and the assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognized at the acquisition date in connection with the acquisition of americredit (dollars in millions, except per share amounts): 95 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) october 1, 2010 consideration cash paid to americredit common shareholders of $24.50 per share $ 3,327 cash paid to cancel outstanding stock warrants 94 cash paid to settle equity-based compensation awards 33 total consideration $ 3,454 acquisition-related costs(a) $ 43 assets acquired and liabilities assumed cash $ 538 restricted cash 1,136 finance receivables(b) 8,231 other assets, including identifiable intangible assets 200 securitization notes payable and other borrowings(c) (7,564 ) other liabilities (352 ) identifiable net assets acquired 2,189 goodwill resulting from the acquisition of americredit 1,265 $ 3,454 _________ (a) acquisition-related costs of $43 million were expensed as incurred. the acquisition related costs include $27 million recorded in automotive selling, general and administrative expense and $16 million recorded in gm financial operating and other expenses. (b) the fair value of finance receivables was determined using a discounted cash flow approach. the contractual cash flows were adjusted for estimated prepayments, defaults, recoveries, finance charge income and servicing costs and discounted using a discount rate commensurate with risks and maturity inherent in the finance contracts. as of the acquisition date, the contractually required payments receivable was $10.7 billion of which $9.7 billion was expected to be collected. (c) the fair value of securitization notes payable and other borrowings was principally determined using quoted market rates. we recorded goodwill in the amount of $1.3 billion for the excess of consideration paid over the fair value of the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed. goodwill includes $153 million recorded to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets that was not applicable to gm financial on a stand-alone basis. all of the goodwill was assigned to the gm financial reporting unit. the goodwill expected to be tax deductible is $159 million and was generated from previous acquisitions by gm financial. the results of operations of gm financial are included in our results beginning october 1, 2010 . the following table summarizes the actual amounts of revenue and earnings of gm financial included in our consolidated financial statements for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, as well as the supplemental pro forma revenue and earnings of the combined entity for the year ended december 31, 2010 as if the acquisition had occurred on january 1, 2010 (dollars in millions): gm financial amounts for year ended december 31, pro forma-combined (unaudited) 2012 2011 2010 year ended december 31, 2010 total net sales and revenue $ 1,961 $ 1,410 $ 281 $ 136,645 net income attributable to stockholders $ 567 $ 440 $ 90 $ 6,651 the supplemental pro forma information was adjusted to give effect to the tax effected amortization of a premium on finance receivables and a premium on securitization notes payable and other borrowings, depreciation and amortization related to other assets and acquisition related costs. the pro forma information should not be considered indicative of the results had the acquisition been consummated on january 1, 2010, nor are they indicative of future results. sale of nexteer 96 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) in november 2010 we completed the sale of nexteer automotive corporation (nexteer), a manufacturer of steering components and half-shafts, which was included in our gmna segment, to pacific century motors. the sale of the nexteer business included the global steering business which was acquired in october 2009 . we received consideration of $426 million in cash and a $39 million promissory note in exchange for 100% of our ownership interest in nexteer and recorded a gain of $60 million on the sale which is recorded in interest income and other non-operating income, net. subsequent to the sale, nexteer became one of our third-party suppliers. during the year ended december 31, 2010 nexteer recorded revenue of $1.8 billion , of which $939 million were sales to us. acquisition of gms in october 2010 we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interest of gms for cash of one euro from mlc. we recorded the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of october 1, 2010 and have included gms's results of operations and cash flows from that date forward. gms was sold in january 2013 as previously discussed. the following table summarizes the amounts recorded in connection with the acquisition of gms, which are included in our gme segment (dollars in millions): october 1, 2010 assets acquired and liabilities assumed cash $ 49 accounts receivable(a) 60 inventory 56 property, net 25 other non-current assets 3 current liabilities (116 ) non-current liabilities (11 ) bargain purchase gain $ 66 _________ (a) accounts receivable includes $32 million that is due from us. we determined that the excess of fair value over consideration paid was attributable to potential future restructuring scenarios made necessary due to the uncertainty in sales demand beyond in-place supply agreements. restructuring costs, if incurred, would be expensed in future periods. as potential future restructuring activities do not qualify to be recorded as a liability in the application of the acquisition method of accounting, none was recorded, and we recorded the excess as a bargain purchase gain, recorded in interest income and other non-operating income, net. we did not provide the pro forma financial information because we do not believe the information was material. saab sale in february 2010 we completed the sale of saab automobile ab and in may 2010 we completed the sale of saab automobile gb (collectively saab) to spyker cars nv. of the negotiated cash purchase price of $74 million , we received $50 million at closing and received the remainder in july 2010 . we also received preference shares in saab with a face value of $326 million and an estimated fair value that is insignificant and received $114 million as repayment of the debtor-in-possession financing that we provided to saab during 2009. in the year ended december 31, 2010 we recorded a gain of $123 million in interest income and other non-operating income, net reflecting cash received of $166 million less net assets with a book value of $43 million . note 5 . gm financial finance receivables, net in april 2012 gm financial commenced commercial lending activities in the u.s. centered on floorplan financing of dealer vehicle inventory and dealer loans to finance dealer sites, facilities, facility improvements and working capital. these loans are made on a secured basis. the following table summarizes gm financial finance receivables, net relating to consumer and commercial activities (dollars in millions): 97 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 current $ 4,044 $ 3,251 non-current 6,954 5,911 total gm financial finance receivables, net $ 10,998 $ 9,162 the following table summarizes the components of gm financial finance receivables, net relating to consumer and commercial activities (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 pre-acquisition finance receivables, outstanding balance $ 2,162 $ 4,366 pre-acquisition finance receivables, carrying amount $ 1,958 $ 4,027 post-acquisition finance receivables, net of fees(a) 9,391 5,314 total finance receivables 11,349 9,341 less: allowance for loan losses on post-acquisition finance receivables(a) (351 ) (179 ) total gm financial finance receivables, net $ 10,998 $ 9,162 __________ (a) at december 31, 2012 the balance includes finance receivables and loans of $560 million and allowance for loan losses of $6 million in connection with the commercial lending program. the following table summarizes activity for finance receivables relating to consumer and commercial activities (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 pre-acquisition finance receivables, carrying amount, beginning of period $ 4,027 $ 7,299 post-acquisition finance receivables, beginning of period 5,314 924 loans originated or purchased(a) 6,806 5,085 charge-offs (304 ) (66 ) principal collections and other(a) (4,324 ) (3,418 ) change in carrying amount adjustment on the pre-acquisition finance receivables (170 ) (483 ) balance at end of period $ 11,349 $ 9,341 __________ (a) includes finance receivables and loans originated of $1.2 billion and principal collections of $667 million in connection with the commercial lending program for the year ended december 31, 2012 . the following table summarizes carrying amount and estimated fair value of gm financial finance receivables, net (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 carrying amount estimated fair value carrying amount estimated fair value gm financial finance receivables, net $ 10,998 $ 11,313 $ 9,162 $ 9,386 gm financial determined the fair value of consumer finance receivables using level 3 inputs within a cash flow model. the level 3 inputs reflect assumptions regarding expected prepayments, deferrals, delinquencies, recoveries and charge-offs of the loans within the finance receivable portfolio. the cash flow model produces an estimated amortization schedule of the finance receivables which is the basis for the calculation of the series of cash flows that derive the fair value of the portfolio. the series of cash flows are calculated and discounted using a weighted-average cost of capital (wacc) using unobservable debt and equity percentages, an unobservable cost of equity and an observable cost of debt based on companies with a similar credit rating and maturity and maturity profile as the portfolio. macroeconomic factors could negatively affect the credit performance of the portfolio and therefore could potentially affect the assumptions used in gm financial's cash flow model. 98 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) substantially all commercial finance receivables have variable interest rates and maturities of one year. therefore, the carrying amount is considered to be a reasonable estimate of fair value. gm financial purchases consumer finance contracts from automobile dealers without recourse, and accordingly, the dealer has no liability to gm financial if the consumer defaults on the contract. finance receivables are collateralized by vehicle titles and gm financial has the right to repossess the vehicle in the event the consumer defaults on the payment terms of the contract. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 the accrual of finance charge income has been suspended on delinquent consumer finance receivables based on contractual amounts due of $503 million and $439 million . at december 31, 2012 there were no commercial finance receivables or loans on non-accrual status. gm financial reviews its pre-acquisition portfolio for differences between contractual cash flows and the cash flows expected to be collected from its initial investment in the pre-acquisition portfolio to determine if the difference is attributable, at least, in part to credit quality. for the period ended december 31, 2012 as a result of improvements in the credit performance of the pre-acquisition portfolio, which resulted in an increase of expected cash flows of $170 million , gm financial transferred the excess non-accretable difference to accretable yield. gm financial will recognize this excess as finance charge income over the remaining life of the portfolio. the following table summarizes accretable yield (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 balance at beginning of period $ 737 $ 1,201 accretion of accretable yield (503 ) (725 ) transfer from non-accretable difference 170 261 balance at end of period $ 404 $ 737 the following table summarizes the allowance for post-acquisition loan losses on consumer and commercial finance receivables (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 current $ 266 $ 136 non-current 85 43 total allowance for post-acquisition loan losses $ 351 $ 179 the following table summarizes activity for the allowance for post-acquisition loan losses on consumer and commercial finance receivables (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, october 1, 2010 through december 31, 2010 2012 2011 balance at beginning of period $ 179 $ 26 $ provision for loan losses 304 178 26 charge-offs (304 ) (66 ) recoveries 172 41 balance at end of period $ 351 $ 179 $ 26 credit quality consumer finance receivables credit bureau scores, generally referred to as fico scores, are determined during gm financial's automotive loan origination process. the following table summarizes the credit risk profile of finance receivables by fico score band, determined at origination (dollars in millions): 99 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 fico score less than 540 $ 3,011 $ 2,133 fico score 540 to 599 5,014 4,167 fico score 600 to 659 2,513 2,624 fico score 660 and greater 455 756 balance at end of period(a) $ 10,993 $ 9,680 __________ (a) composed of the sum of pre-acquisition consumer finance receivables - outstanding balance and post-acquisition consumer finance receivables, net of fees. commercial finance receivables gm financial's commercial finance receivables consist of dealer financings. a proprietary model is used to assign a risk rating to each dealer. a credit review of each dealer is performed at least annually and, if necessary, the dealer's risk rating is adjusted on the basis of the review. delinquency consumer finance receivables the following summarizes the contractual amount of consumer finance receivables, which is not materially different than the recorded investment, more than 30 days delinquent, but not yet in repossession, and in repossession, but not yet charged off (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 amount percent of contractual amount due amount percent of contractual amount due delinquent contracts 31-to-60 days $ 672 6.1 % $ 517 5.3 % greater-than-60 days 230 2.1 % 182 1.9 % total consumer finance receivables more than 30 days delinquent 902 8.2 % 699 7.2 % in repossession 31 0.3 % 27 0.3 % total consumer finance receivables more than 30 days delinquent and in repossession $ 933 8.5 % $ 726 7.5 % an account is considered delinquent if a substantial portion of a scheduled payment has not been received by the date such payment was contractually due. delinquencies may vary from period to period based upon the average age of the portfolio, seasonality within the calendar year and economic factors. commercial finance receivables at december 31, 2012 all commercial finance receivables were current with respect to payment status. note 6 . securitizations automotive financing - gm financial the following table summarizes securitization activity and cash flows from consolidated spes used for securitizations (dollars in millions): 100 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) years ended december 31, october 1, 2010 through december 31, 2010 2012 2011 receivables securitized $ 6,777 $ 4,828 $ 743 net proceeds from securitization $ 6,400 $ 4,550 $ 700 servicing fees variable interest entities $ 242 $ 201 $ 46 net distributions from trusts variable interest entities $ 1,487 $ 852 $ 216 gm financial retains servicing responsibilities for receivables transferred to securitization spes. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 gm financial serviced finance receivables that have been transferred to certain spes of $9.9 billion and $7.9 billion . at december 31, 2012 and 2011 a canadian subsidiary of gm financial serviced leased assets of $625 million and $1.0 billion for a third-party. note 7. marketable securities we measure the fair value of our marketable securities using a market approach where identical or comparable prices are available and an income approach in other cases. we obtain the majority of the prices used in this valuation from a pricing service. our pricing service utilizes industry standard pricing models that consider various inputs, including benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads and benchmark securities as well as other relevant economic measures. we conduct an annual review of valuations provided by our pricing service, which includes discussion and analysis of the inputs used by the pricing service to provide prices for the types of securities we hold. these inputs include prices for comparable securities, bid/ask quotes, interest rate yields and prepayment spreads. based on our review we believe the prices received from our pricing service are a reliable representation of exit prices. peugeot s.a. at december 31, 2012, we measured the fair value of our investment in peugeot s.a. (psa) common stock using the published stock price and determined the carrying amount of our investment in psa common stock exceeded its fair value. psa's stock price has shown no sustained signs of recovery towards the price at which we acquired our seven percent interest in march 2012. based upon the 55% decline in psa common stock price since our acquisition in march 2012 and the nine month duration of the impairment, combined with our fourth quarter reassessment of our european automotive operations, we have concluded that the impairment of our investment in psa common stock is other-than-temporary. as a result we have transferred the total unrealized losses from accumulated other comprehensive loss to interest income and other non-operating income, net resulting in recognition of an impairment charge of $220 million . gm korea preferred shares in september 2012 we entered into a transaction to acquire security interests in certain mandatorily redeemable preferred shares issued by gm korea for $293 million . the transaction did not meet the criteria for an extinguishment of the liability. subsequently, gm korea partially redeemed the mandatorily redeemable preferred shares resulting in an extinguishment of the liability and redemption of a portion of the security interests, which is described in more detail in note 17 . the remaining unredeemed interests are classified as available-for-sale corporate debt securities and had a fair value of $177 million at december 31, 2012 . the following tables summarize information regarding marketable securities (dollars in millions): 101 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) december 31, 2012 unrealized fair value fair value measurements on a recurring basis cost gains losses level 1 level 2 level 3 cash and cash equivalents available-for-sale securities u.s. government and agencies $ 4,190 $ $ $ 4,190 $ $ 4,190 $ certificates of deposit 120 120 120 money market funds 1,799 1,799 1,799 corporate debt 3,102 3,102 3,102 total available-for-sale securities $ 9,211 $ $ 9,211 1,799 7,412 trading securities sovereign debt 1,408 1,408 total trading securities 1,408 1,408 total marketable securities classified as cash equivalents 10,619 $ 1,799 $ 8,820 $ cash, time deposits and other cash equivalents 7,803 total cash and cash equivalents $ 18,422 marketable securities - current available-for-sale securities u.s. government and agencies $ 1,231 $ $ $ 1,231 $ $ 1,231 $ sovereign debt 30 30 30 certificates of deposit 10 10 10 corporate debt(a) 2,455 40 2,495 2,495 equity 21 21 21 total available-for-sale securities $ 3,726 $ 61 $ 3,787 21 3,766 trading securities sovereign debt 5,201 5,201 total trading securities 5,201 5,201 total marketable securities - current 8,988 21 8,967 marketable securities - non-current available-for-sale securities equity(b) $ 179 $ $ 179 179 total marketable securities - non-current $ 179 $ $ 179 179 total marketable securities $ 9,167 $ 200 $ 8,967 $ restricted cash and marketable securities available-for-sale securities money market funds $ 933 $ $ $ 933 $ 933 $ $ sovereign debt 23 1 24 24 other 175 175 175 total marketable securities classified as restricted cash and marketable securities $ 1,131 $ 1 $ 1,132 $ 933 $ 199 $ restricted cash, time deposits and other restricted cash equivalents 236 total restricted cash and marketable securities $ 1,368 _______ (a) includes security interest in the gm korea mandatorily redeemable preferred shares. 102 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) (b) represents our seven percent ownership in psa acquired in connection with our agreement with psa to create a long-term and strategic alliance. the investment is recorded in other assets. december 31, 2011 unrealized fair value fair value measurements on a recurring basis cost gains losses level 1 level 2 level 3 cash and cash equivalents available-for-sale securities u.s. government and agencies $ 239 $ $ $ 239 $ $ 239 $ sovereign debt 490 490 490 certificates of deposit 2,028 2,028 2,028 money market funds 1,794 1,794 1,794 corporate debt 5,112 5,112 5,112 total available-for-sale securities $ 9,663 $ $ 9,663 1,794 7,869 trading securities sovereign debt 497 497 total trading securities 497 497 total marketable securities classified as cash equivalents 10,160 $ 1,794 $ 8,366 $ cash, time deposits and other cash equivalents 5,911 total cash and cash equivalents $ 16,071 marketable securities - current available-for-sale securities u.s. government and agencies $ 5,214 $ 2 $ $ 5,216 $ $ 5,216 $ sovereign debt 143 143 143 certificates of deposit 178 178 178 corporate debt 4,566 3 4 4,565 4,565 total available-for-sale securities $ 10,101 $ 5 $ 4 10,102 10,102 trading securities equity 34 34 sovereign debt 5,936 5,936 other debt 76 76 total trading securities 6,046 34 6,012 total marketable securities - current $ 16,148 $ 34 $ 16,114 $ restricted cash and marketable securities available-for-sale securities money market funds $ 1,363 $ $ $ 1,363 $ 1,363 $ $ sovereign debt 15 15 15 other 161 3 164 164 total marketable securities classified as restricted cash and marketable securities $ 1,539 $ 3 $ 1,542 $ 1,363 $ 179 $ restricted cash, time deposits and other restricted cash equivalents 691 total restricted cash and marketable securities $ 2,233 we maintained securities of $84 million as compensating balances to support letters of credit of $70 million at december 31, 2011 . at december 31, 2012 these compensating balances were not required. 103 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) sales proceeds from investments in marketable securities classified as available-for-sale and sold prior to maturity were $4.7 billion , $1.6 billion and $11 million in the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 . the following table summarizes the amortized cost and the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale within cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash by contractual maturity at december 31, 2012 (dollars in millions): amortized cost fair value due in one year or less $ 9,281 $ 9,318 due after one year through five years 1,892 1,896 total contractual maturities of available-for-sale securities $ 11,173 $ 11,214 note 8. inventories the following table summarizes the components of inventories (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 productive material, supplies and work in process $ 6,560 $ 6,486 finished product, including service parts 8,154 7,838 total inventories $ 14,714 $ 14,324 note 9. equipment on operating leases, net automotive equipment on operating leases, net is composed of vehicle sales to daily rental car companies. the following table summarizes information related to equipment on operating leases, net (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 equipment on operating leases $ 1,946 $ 2,691 less: accumulated depreciation (164 ) (227 ) equipment on operating leases, net $ 1,782 $ 2,464 the following table summarizes depreciation expense and impairment charges related to equipment on operating leases, net (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 depreciation expense $ 227 $ 431 $ 500 impairment charges $ 181 $ 151 $ 49 the following table summarizes equipment on operating leases to daily rental car companies measured at fair value utilizing level 3 inputs on a nonrecurring basis (dollars in millions): fair value measurements on a nonrecurring basis (a) fair value measures level 1 level 2 level 3 year ended december 31, 2012 $ 2,469 $ $ $ 2,469 year ended december 31, 2011 $ 2,571 $ $ $ 2,571 year ended december 31, 2010 $ 2,310 $ $ $ 2,310 __________ (a) the carrying amount of the related assets at december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 may no longer equal the fair value as the fair value presented is as of the date the impairment was recorded during the year presented. 104 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) impairment of vehicles leased to daily rental car companies with guaranteed repurchase obligations is determined to exist if the expected future cash flows are lower than the carrying amount of the vehicle. we have multiple, distinct portfolios of vehicles leased to rental car companies and may have multiple impairments within a period. expected cash flows include all estimated net revenue and costs associated with the sale to daily rental car companies through disposal at auction. the fair value measurements are determined, reviewed and approved on a monthly basis by personnel with appropriate knowledge of transactions with daily rental car companies and auction transactions. the following table summarizes the significant quantitative unobservable inputs and assumptions used in the fair value measurement of equipment on operating leases, net (dollars in millions): valuation technique significant unobservable input year ended december 31, 2012 impaired equipment on operating leases cash flow estimated net revenue $ 2,530 estimated costs $ 2,711 automotive financing - gm financial gm financial originates leases in the u.s. and canada that are recorded as operating leases. a canadian subsidiary of gm financial originates and sells leases to a third-party with servicing retained. the following table summarizes gm financial equipment on operating leases, net (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 gm financial equipment on operating leases $ 1,910 $ 860 less: accumulated depreciation (261 ) (75 ) gm financial equipment on operating leases, net $ 1,649 $ 785 the following table summarizes depreciation expense related to gm financial equipment on operating leases, net (dollars in millions): year ended december 31, 2012 2011 depreciation expense $ 205 $ 70 the following table summarizes minimum rental payments due to gm financial as lessor under operating leases (dollars in millions): 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 minimum rental receipts under operating leases $ 331 $ 274 $ 160 $ 33 $ 2 note 10. equity in net assets of nonconsolidated affiliates nonconsolidated affiliates are entities in which an equity ownership interest is maintained and for which the equity method of accounting is used, due to the ability to exert significant influence over decisions relating to their operating and financial affairs. the following table summarizes information regarding equity income, net of tax and gain on investments (dollars in millions): 105 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 china joint ventures (china jvs) $ 1,521 $ 1,511 $ 1,297 new delphi (including gain on disposition) 1,727 117 others (including gain on acquisition of hkjv) 41 (46 ) 24 total equity income, net of tax and gain on investments $ 1,562 $ 3,192 $ 1,438 sales and income of our joint ventures are not consolidated into our financial statements; rather, our proportionate share of the earnings of each joint venture is reflected as equity income, net of tax and gain on investments. we received dividends from nonconsolidated affiliates of $1.4 billion , $1.2 billion and $685 million in the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 . at december 31, 2012 and 2011 we had undistributed earnings including dividends declared but not received, of $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion related to our nonconsolidated affiliates. investment in china jvs the following table summarizes our direct ownership interests in china jvs: december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 shanghai general motors co., ltd. (sgm) 50 % 49 % shanghai gm norsom motor co., ltd. (sgm norsom) 25 % 25 % shanghai gm dong yue motors co., ltd. (sgm dy) 25 % 25 % shanghai gm dong yue powertrain (sgm dypt) 25 % 25 % saic-gm-wuling automobile co., ltd. (sgmw) 44 % 44 % faw-gm light duty commercial vehicle co., ltd. (faw-gm) 50 % 50 % pan asia technical automotive center co., ltd. 50 % 50 % shanghai onstar telematics co., ltd. (shanghai onstar) 40 % 40 % shanghai chengxin used car operation and management co., ltd. (shanghai chengxin used car) 33 % 33 % saic general motors sales co., ltd. (sgms) 49 % 49 % sgm is a joint venture established in 1997 by saic ( 50% ) and us ( 50% ). sgm has interests in three other joint ventures in china: sgm norsom, sgm dy and sgm dypt. these three joint ventures are jointly held by sgm ( 50% ), saic ( 25% ) and us ( 25% ). these four joint ventures are engaged in the production, import, and sale of a comprehensive range of products under the buick, chevrolet and cadillac brands. sgm also has interests in shanghai onstar ( 20% ) and shanghai chengxin used car ( 33% ). sgm also has a 20% equity interest in gmac-saic, a joint venture established by general motors acceptance corporation (now ally financial) ( 40% ) and saic finance co., ltd. ( 40% ) in 2007. sgms is a joint venture established in november 2011 by saic ( 51% ) and us ( 49% ) to engage in the sales of the imported buick, chevrolet and cadillac brands and the sales of automobiles manufactured by sgm. in february 2010 we sold a 1% ownership interest in sgm to saic-hk, reducing our ownership interest to 49% . the sale of the 1% ownership interest to saic was predicated on our ability to work with saic to obtain a $400 million line of credit from a commercial bank to us. we also received a call option to repurchase the 1% which was contingently exercisable based on events which we did not unilaterally control. as part of the loan arrangement saic provided a commitment whereby, in the event of default, saic would purchase the ownership interest in sgm that we pledged as collateral for the loan. we recorded an insignificant gain on the transaction. in september 2012 we repurchased the 1% interest in sgm for a total consideration of $119 million , increasing our ownership interest in sgm to 50%. the transaction was accounted for by applying the equity method of accounting. the consideration exceeded our proportionate share of the 1% interest in sgm net assets by $82 million , which consists of plant, property and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill of $8 million , $36 million and $38 million . 106 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) in november 2010 we purchased an additional 10% interest in sgmw from the liuzhou wuling motors co., ltd. and liuzhou mini vehicles factory, collectively the wuling group, for cash of $52 million plus an agreement to provide technical services to the wuling group for a period of three years. as a result of this transaction we own 44% , saic owns 50.1% and certain liuzhou investors own 5.9% of the outstanding stock of sgmw. sale of new delphi in march 2011 we sold our class a membership interests in delphi automotive llp (new delphi) to new delphi for $3.8 billion . the class a membership interests sold represented 100% of our direct and indirect interests in new delphi and 100% of new delphi's class a membership interests issued and outstanding. the sale terminated any direct and indirect obligation to loan new delphi up to $500 million under a term loan facility established in october 2009 when new delphi was created and the class a membership interests were issued. new delphi had not borrowed under this loan facility. in march 2011 we recorded a gain of $1.6 billion related to the sale in equity income, net of tax and gain on investments. our existing supply contracts with new delphi were not affected by this transaction. investment in hkjv in march 2011 the fair value of our investment in hkjv was determined to be less than its carrying amount. the loss in value was determined to be other-than-temporary; therefore, we recorded an impairment charge of $39 million in the three months ended march 31, 2011. in addition we recorded other charges totaling $67 million related to our investment in the hkjv. we provided saic-hk, a 50% equity holder in hkjv through september 1, 2012, an option to not participate in future capital injections, which would otherwise be required under certain circumstances. the related option liability was $88 million and total unrealized losses were $64 million at december 31, 2011. a monte carlo option-pricing model was used to estimate the fair value of the option liability which is a level 3 measure. the key inputs into the option pricing model were the expected volatility, risk-free rate, expected term, fair value of hkjv and expected amounts of the future funding requirement. the fair value estimate of the option was most sensitive to the fair value of hkjv, which was unobservable. a discounted cash flow methodology was utilized to estimate the fair value of hkjv. in september 2012 saic-hk exercised its option to not participate in future capital injections to hkjv. as a consequence of the decision to not participate in the capital injections and our settlement of a promissory note, saic-hk's interest in hkjv was diluted from 50% to 14% and we obtained control of hkjv with an 86% interest. we consolidated the assets and liabilities and the results of operations of hkjv beginning on september 1, 2012. refer to note 4 for further detail regarding the acquisition. vmm deconsolidation in june 2011 we entered into a new shareholder agreement with fiat powertrain technologies spa related to vm motori (vmm) in italy. under the new shareholder agreement, we retain 50% ownership but no longer have control. accordingly, we removed the assets and liabilities of vmm, which included allocated goodwill of $36 million from our gme reporting unit, from our consolidated balance sheets and recorded an equity interest in the amount of $46 million . investment in and summarized financial data of nonconsolidated affiliates the following table summarizes the carrying amount of investments in nonconsolidated affiliates (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 china jvs $ 6,579 $ 6,452 other investments 304 338 total equity in net assets of nonconsolidated affiliates $ 6,883 $ 6,790 at december 31, 2012 and 2011 the carrying amount of our investments in certain joint ventures exceeded our share of the underlying net assets by $3.8 billion . these differences are primarily related to the application of fresh-start reporting and purchase of additional interests in nonconsolidated affiliates, of which $3.4 billion and $3.3 billion at december 31, 2012 and 2011 were allocated to goodwill and the remainder was allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities, primarily intangibles, and are being 107 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) amortized over their useful lives. the following tables present summarized financial data for all of our nonconsolidated affiliates (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 china jvs others total china jvs others total summarized balance sheet data current assets $ 11,759 $ 2,642 $ 14,401 $ 10,882 $ 2,274 $ 13,156 non-current assets 6,766 1,507 8,273 5,293 1,863 7,156 total assets $ 18,525 $ 4,149 $ 22,674 $ 16,175 $ 4,137 $ 20,312 current liabilities $ 12,612 $ 1,893 $ 14,505 $ 10,526 $ 1,492 $ 12,018 non-current liabilities 756 758 1,514 651 934 1,585 total liabilities $ 13,368 $ 2,651 $ 16,019 $ 11,177 $ 2,426 $ 13,603 non-controlling interests $ 1,055 $ 1 $ 1,056 $ 948 $ $ 948 years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 summarized operating data china jv's net sales $ 33,364 $ 30,511 $ 25,395 others' net sales 3,963 4,242 17,500 total net sales $ 37,327 $ 34,753 $ 42,895 china jv's net income $ 3,198 $ 3,203 $ 2,808 others' net income (loss) (23 ) (13 ) 656 total net income $ 3,175 $ 3,190 $ 3,464 transactions with nonconsolidated affiliates nonconsolidated affiliates are involved in various aspects of the development, production and marketing of cars, trucks and automobile parts. we purchase component parts and vehicles from certain nonconsolidated affiliates for resale to dealers. the following tables summarize the effects of transactions with nonconsolidated affiliates (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 results of operations automotive sales and revenue $ 2,572 $ 3,266 $ 2,910 automotive purchases, net $ 497 $ 1,044 $ 2,881 interest income and other non-operating income, net $ 184 $ 34 $ 43 december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 financial position accounts and notes receivable, net $ 1,668 $ 1,785 accounts and notes payable $ 167 $ 342 deferred revenue and customer deposits $ 46 $ 150 108 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 cash flows operating $ 3,385 $ 3,624 $ 719 investing $ (41 ) $ (27 ) $ (74 ) note 11. property, net the following table summarizes the components of property, net (dollars in millions): estimated useful lives in years december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 land $ 2,107 $ 2,502 buildings and improvements 5-40 4,601 4,701 machinery and equipment 3-27 12,720 10,670 construction in progress 3,018 3,070 real estate, plants, and equipment 22,446 20,943 less: accumulated depreciation (5,556 ) (4,611 ) real estate, plants, and equipment, net 16,890 16,332 special tools, net 1-15 7,306 6,673 total property, net $ 24,196 $ 23,005 the following table summarizes the amount of interest capitalized and excluded from automotive interest expense related to property, net (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 capitalized interest $ 117 $ 91 $ 62 the following table summarizes the amount of capitalized software included in property, net (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 capitalized software in use, net $ 465 $ 280 capitalized software in the process of being developed $ 108 $ 113 the following table summarizes depreciation, impairment charges and amortization expense related to property, net, recorded in automotive cost of sales, gm financial operating and other expenses, automotive selling, general and administrative expense and other automotive expenses, net (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 depreciation and amortization expense $ 3,888 $ 3,604 $ 3,576 impairment charges(a) 3,793 81 240 depreciation, impairment charges and amortization expense $ 7,681 $ 3,685 $ 3,816 capitalized software amortization expense(b) $ 209 $ 203 $ 195 __________ (a) includes gme assets whose fair value was $408 million at december 31, 2012. also includes other assets whose fair value was determined to be $0 in the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 measured utilizing level 3 inputs. fair value measurements of the non-gme asset group long-lived assets utilized projected cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the perceived business risks related to the assets involved. (b) included in total depreciation, impairment charges and amortization expense. 109 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) gme impairment charges the carrying amounts of substantially all of gme's assets were established at fair value during fresh-start reporting. in the determination of fair value, one of our key inputs was a forecasted cash flow projection. during 2010, our actual cash flows approximated our projection. during the second half of 2011 and continuing into 2012, the european automotive industry has been severely affected by the ongoing sovereign debt crisis, high unemployment and a lack of consumer confidence coupled with overcapacity. during this timeframe, we began to experience deterioration in cash flows. in response, we formulated a plan to implement various actions to strengthen our operations and increase our competitiveness. the key areas of the plan include investments in our product portfolio, a revised brand strategy, significant management changes, reducing material, development and production costs, and further leveraging synergies from the alliance between us and psa. we believe it is likely that adverse economic conditions, and their effect on the european automotive industry will not improve significantly in the short-term and we expect to continue to incur losses in the region as a result. during the fourth quarter of 2012, notwithstanding the above described actions, gme performed below expectations relative to the key operating metrics of forecasted revenues, market share, and variable profit established in mid-2012. further, our industry outlook deteriorated, and our forecast of 2013 cash flows declined. this triggered a long-lived asset impairment analysis. we performed a recoverability test of the gme asset group by weighting various undiscounted cash flow scenarios. the weighting of the projected cash flows considers the uncertainty in our ability to execute the actions contemplated in our plan which, in part, are dependent upon actions and factors outside our control. our test concluded that the gme asset group was not recoverable as the resulting undiscounted cash flows were less than their carrying amount. accordingly, we estimated the fair value of the gme long-lived assets to determine the impairment amount. determining the fair value is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, considered to be level 3 inputs. to determine the estimated fair value of real and personal property, the cost approach, market approach and income approach were considered. under the cost approach, the determination of fair value considered the estimates of the cost to construct or purchase a new asset of equal utility at current prices with adjustments in value for physical deterioration, functional obsolescence, and economic obsolescence. under the market approach, the determination of fair value considered the market prices in transactions for similar assets and certain direct market values based on quoted prices from brokers and secondary market participants for similar assets. under the income approach, the determination of fair value considered the estimate of the present worth of future benefits derived from ownership, usually measured through the capitalization of a specific level of income which can be derived from the subject asset with adjustments in value for demolition costs and for the effect of an estimated holding period. under the income approach, it was assumed fair value could not exceed the present value of the net cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the level of risk inherent in the subject asset. an in-exchange premise was determined to be the highest and best use. the following table summarizes the significant level 3 inputs for real and personal property measurements: valuation technique(s) unobservable input(s) range real property market approach demolition costs(a) 6% - 23% cost approach holding period(b) 0 - 4 years income approach discount rate(c) 11.2% - 14.5% personal property market approach physical deterioration(d) 52% - 69% cost approach functional obsolescence(e) 8% - 28% economic obsolescence(f) 17% - 23% __________ (a) represents estimated gross cost to demolish and clear the structures on the property as a percentage of replacement cost new. (b) represents estimated marketing period for each property; which dictates the amount of property specific holding costs to be incurred such as real estate taxes. (c) represents the discount rate for the specific property based on local market sources and available benchmarking data. (d) represents estimates of loss in asset value due to wear and tear, action of the elements, and other physical factors that reduce the life and serviceability of the asset. (e) represents estimated loss in asset value caused by inefficiencies and inadequacies of the asset itself. 110 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) (f) represents estimated loss in asset value caused by factors external to the asset such as legislative enactments, changes in use, social change, and change in supply and demand. as a result of our fair value estimates, we adjusted the carrying amount of the gme real and personal property to fair value and recorded asset impairment charges of $3.7 billion at december 31, 2012. these charges were recorded in our gme segment with $3.5 billion recorded in automotive cost of sales and $0.2 billion recorded in automotive selling, general and administrative expense. the fair value estimates for gme real and personal property are based on a valuation premise that assumes the assets' highest and best use are different than their current use due to the overall european macro-economic environment. the following table summarizes gme real and personal property measured at fair value utilizing level 3 inputs on a nonrecurring basis (dollars in millions): fair value measure level 1 level 2 level 3 total impairment year ended december 31, 2012 $ 408 $ $ $ 408 $ 3,714 our recoverability test of the gme asset group also included intangible assets and other long-lived assets resulting in additional impairment charges of $1.8 billion at december 31, 2012, for a total of $5.5 billion . refer to note 13 for additional information regarding the impairment of intangible assets. note 12. goodwill the following table summarizes the changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill (dollars in millions): gmna gme gmio gmsa total automotive gm financial total balance at january 1, 2011 $ 26,394 $ 3,053 $ 901 $ 165 $ 30,513 $ 1,265 $ 31,778 effect of adoption of asu 2010-28 (1,466 ) (1,466 ) (1,466 ) impairment charges (1,016 ) (270 ) (1,286 ) (1,286 ) deconsolidation of entity(a) (36 ) (36 ) (36 ) goodwill from business combinations 5 5 14 19 effect of foreign currency translation and other 46 (21 ) (14 ) 11 (1 ) 10 balance at december 31, 2011 26,399 581 610 151 27,741 1,278 29,019 impairment charges (26,399 ) (590 ) (156 ) (27,145 ) (27,145 ) goodwill from business combinations(b) 61 61 61 effect of foreign currency translation and other 9 34 (5 ) 38 38 balance at december 31, 2012 $ $ $ 549 $ 146 $ 695 $ 1,278 $ 1,973 accumulated impairment charges at january 1, 2011 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ accumulated impairment charges at december 31, 2011 $ $ (2,482 ) $ (270 ) $ $ (2,752 ) $ $ (2,752 ) accumulated impairment charges at december 31, 2012 $ (26,399 ) $ (3,072 ) $ (426 ) $ $ (29,897 ) $ $ (29,897 ) _________ (a) refer to note 10 for additional information concerning the deconsolidation of vmm. (b) refer to note 4 for additional information concerning the acquisition of hkjv. in the three months ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 we performed our annual goodwill impairment testing as of october 1 for all reporting units. in addition, in the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, we performed event-driven goodwill impairment tests at various dates for certain of our reporting units. gmna 111 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) subsequent to our 2012 annual goodwill impairment testing, we reversed $36.2 billion of our deferred tax asset valuation allowances for our gmna reporting unit. the reversal of the deferred tax asset valuation allowances resulted in the carrying amount of our gmna reporting unit exceeding its fair value. as a result we performed an event-driven goodwill impairment test in the three months ended december 31, 2012. based on the results of this event-driven impairment test we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $26.4 billion in the three months ended december 31, 2012. at december 31, 2012, gmna's goodwill balance was $0 . refer to note 21 for additional information on the reversal of our deferred tax asset valuation allowances for our u.s. and canadian operations. gme we adopted the provisions of asu 2010-28, when to perform step 2 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts (asu 2010-28) on january 1, 2011 and performed step 2 of the goodwill impairment testing analysis for our gme reporting unit which had a negative carrying amount resulting in the recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings. gme continued to have a negative carrying amount and because it was more likely than not further goodwill impairment existed at march 31, 2012 and at december 31, and march 31, 2011, we recorded aggregate goodwill impairment charges of $590 million and $1.0 billion in the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011. at march 31, 2012, gme's goodwill balance was $0 . gmio based on our annual goodwill impairment testing we determined that goodwill was impaired for our gm korea reporting unit at october 1, 2011, as the fair value of gm korea decreased below its carrying amount. we performed event-driven goodwill impairment tests for gm korea for each three month period ended subsequent to october 1, 2011. the decrease in 2011 of gm korea's fair value was driven by a higher level of anticipated economic weakness in certain markets to which gm korea exports coupled with lower forecasted margins resulting from higher raw material costs and unfavorable foreign exchange rates. subsequent to our 2011 annual impairment testing we reversed a deferred tax asset valuation allowance for our gm holden, ltd. (holden) reporting unit that resulted in the carrying amount of this reporting unit exceeding its fair value. at december 31, 2011 holden's goodwill balance was $0 . at october 1, 2012 based on our annual goodwill impairment testing we determined that the fair value of gm south africa decreased below its carrying amount. based on the results of our annual and event-driven goodwill impairment tests, we recorded total goodwill impairment charges of $156 million and $270 million in the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 within our gmio segment. at december 31, 2012 gm south africa's goodwill balance was $0 . impairment charges the impairment charges recorded as a result of the initial adoption of asu 2010-28 and the annual and event-driven goodwill impairment tests in the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 represent the net decreases in implied goodwill resulting primarily from decreases in the fair value-to-u.s. gaap differences attributable to those assets and liabilities that gave rise to goodwill upon our application of fresh-start reporting. the net decreases resulted primarily from the reversal of our deferred tax asset valuation allowances for certain reporting units thus resulting in the recorded amount for deferred taxes exceeding their fair values. the net decreases also resulted from improvements in our nonperformance risk and in our incremental borrowing rates since july 10, 2009. at certain of the testing dates the net decrease was also due to an increase in the high quality corporate bond rates utilized to measure our employee benefit obligations and a decrease in credit spreads between high quality corporate bond rates and market interest rates for companies with similar nonperformance risk. for the purpose of deriving an implied goodwill balance, deterioration in the business outlook for gme resulted in a reduction in the fair value of certain tax attributes and an increase in estimated employee benefit obligations. the amount of implied goodwill derived from gm korea decreased primarily from a reduction in the fair value of certain tax attributes. the amount of implied goodwill derived from gmna and holden decreased primarily due to the recorded amount of deferred taxes exceeding the fair values of the tax attributes. fair value measurements when performing our goodwill impairment testing, the fair values of our reporting units were determined based on valuation techniques using the best available information, primarily discounted cash flow projections. we make significant assumptions and estimates about the extent and timing of future cash flows, growth rates, market share and discount rates that represent unobservable inputs into our valuation methodologies. the cash flows are estimated over a significant future period of time, which makes those estimates and assumptions subject to a high degree of uncertainty. where available and as appropriate, comparative market multiples 112 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) and the quoted market price of our common stock are used to corroborate the results of the discounted cash flow method. assumptions used in our discounted cash flow analysis that have the most significant effect on the estimated fair value of our reporting units (excluding gm financial) include: our estimated wacc; our estimated long-term growth rates; and our estimate of industry volumes and our market share. the valuation methodologies utilized to perform our goodwill impairment testing were consistent with those used in our application of fresh-start reporting on july 10, 2009 and in any subsequent annual or event-driven goodwill impairment tests and utilized level 3 measures. because the fair value of goodwill can be measured only as a residual amount and cannot be determined directly we calculated the implied goodwill for those reporting units failing step 1 in the same manner that goodwill is recognized in a business combination pursuant to accounting standards codification (asc) 805, business combinations. the following table summarizes the goodwill balances and key assumptions utilized for each of our reporting units that required a step 2 analysis (dollars and vehicles in millions): long-term growth rates industry volumes(a) market share(a) goodwill(b) wacc 2011/2012/2013 2015/2016 2011/2012/2013 2015/2016 gmna - at december 31, 2012 $ 26,399 17.5 % 1.5 % 18.7 20.5 17.8 % 18.9 % gme - at january 1, 2011 $ 3,053 17.0 % 0.5 % 18.4 22.0 6.6 % 7.4 % gme - at march 31, 2011 $ 1,661 16.5 % 0.5 % 18.4 22.0 6.6 % 7.4 % gme - at october 1, 2011 $ 1,246 17.5 % 0.5 % 19.4 21.7 6.7 % 7.0 % gme - at december 31, 2011 $ 1,193 18.5 % 0.5 % 19.4 22.3 6.3 % 6.9 % gme - at march 31, 2012 $ 594 17.5 % 0.5 % 19.1 21.9 6.2 % 6.3 % gm korea - at october 1, 2011(c) $ 615 15.5 % 3.0 % 81.0 97.1 1.4 % 1.1 % gm korea - at december 31, 2011(c) $ 596 15.5 % 3.0 % 81.0 97.1 1.4 % 1.1 % gm korea - at march 31, 2012(c) $ 564 14.8 % 3.0 % 81.0 97.1 1.4 % 1.1 % gm korea - at june 30, 2012(c) $ 523 14.8 % 3.0 % 81.0 97.1 1.4 % 1.1 % gm korea - at september 30, 2012(c) $ 540 14.5 % 3.0 % 82.1 99.8 1.2 % 1.2 % gm korea - at december 31, 2012(c) $ 481 14.0 % 3.0 % 85.0 99.7 1.2 % 1.2 % holden - at december 31, 2011 $ 197 14.0 % 2.0 % 1.2 1.3 12.5 % 12.6 % gm south africa - at october 1, 2012 $ 38 13.3 % 3.5 % 0.7 0.9 10.4 % 10.0 % _________ (a) gmna forecast volumes at december 31, 2012 are 2013 through 2016. gme forecast volumes at january 1, 2011 and march 31, 2011 are 2011 through 2015 and are 2012 through 2016 thereafter. gm korea forecast volumes are 2012 through 2015, except for at september 30, 2012 which are 2012 through 2016 and december 31, 2012 which are 2013 through 2016. holden forecast volumes at december 31, 2011 are 2012 through 2015. gm south africa forecast volumes at october 1, 2012 are 2012 through 2016. (b) represents the balance of goodwill evaluated for impairment under the step 2 analysis. (c) industry forecast volumes and market share for gm korea are based on global industry volumes because gm korea exports vehicles globally. the waccs considered various factors including bond yields, risk premiums and tax rates; the terminal values were determined using a growth model that applied a reporting unit's long-term growth rate to its projected cash flows beyond the forecast period; and industry volumes and a market share for each reporting unit included annual estimates through the forecast period. in addition minimum operating cash needs that incorporate specific business, economic and regulatory factors giving rise to varying cash needs were estimated. during our step 2 analyses we determined the fair values of these reporting units had not increased sufficiently to give rise to implied goodwill other than the goodwill arising from the fair value-to-u.s. gaap differences attributable to those assets and liabilities that gave rise to goodwill upon application of fresh-start reporting. on the various testing dates noted in the table above, our step 2 analyses indicated gmna's, gme's, gm korea's, gm south africa's and holden's implied goodwill was less than their recorded goodwill; therefore, goodwill was adjusted at the various dates indicated in the table above, except for at june 30, 113 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 2012 gm korea's implied goodwill exceeded its recorded goodwill. as such gm korea's goodwill was not adjusted at june 30, 2012. future goodwill impairments that may be material could be recognized should economic uncertainty continue, our equity price decline on a sustained basis, global economies enter into another recession and industry growth stagnates, or should we release deferred tax asset valuation allowances in certain tax jurisdictions. in these circumstances future goodwill impairments would largely be affected by decreases in the fair value-to-u.s.-gaap differences that have occurred subsequent to our application of fresh-start reporting, which in the future would primarily occur upon reversal of our remaining deferred tax asset valuation allowances or a decline in the fair value of gm financial. any declines would have a negative effect on our earnings that could be material. our fair value estimates for annual and event-driven impairment tests assume the achievement of the future financial results contemplated in our forecasted cash flows and there can be no assurance that we will realize that value. the estimates and assumptions used are subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and there is no assurance that anticipated financial results will be achieved. note 13. intangible assets, net the following table summarizes the components of intangible assets, net (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 weighted-average remaining amortization period in years gross carrying amount accumulated amortization net carrying amount weighted-average remaining amortization period in years gross carrying amount accumulated amortization net carrying amount technology and intellectual property 2 $ 7,775 $ 6,320 $ 1,455 3 $ 7,751 $ 5,081 $ 2,670 brands 34 4,464 431 4,033 36 5,410 374 5,036 dealer network and customer relationships 17 1,375 327 1,048 20 2,138 322 1,816 favorable contracts 37 367 269 98 30 514 200 314 other 0 17 17 1 17 14 3 total amortizing intangible assets 25 13,998 7,364 6,634 24 15,830 5,991 9,839 nonamortizing in process research and development 175 175 175 175 total intangible assets $ 14,173 $ 7,364 $ 6,809 $ 16,005 $ 5,991 $ 10,014 the following table summarizes the amortization expense and impairment charges related to intangible assets, net (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 amortization expense $ 1,568 $ 1,804 $ 2,561 impairment charges $ 1,755 $ $ the following table summarizes estimated amortization expense related to intangible assets, net in each of the next five years (dollars in millions): 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 estimated amortization expense $ 1,165 $ 549 $ 251 $ 251 $ 249 gme impairment charges 114 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the carrying amounts of substantially all of gme's assets were established at fair value during fresh-start reporting. in the determination of fair value, one of our key inputs was a forecasted cash flow projection. during 2010, our actual cash flows approximated our projection. during the second half of 2011 and continuing into 2012, the european automotive industry has been severely affected by the ongoing sovereign debt crisis, high unemployment and a lack of consumer confidence coupled with overcapacity. during this timeframe, we began to experience deterioration in cash flows. in response, we formulated a plan to implement various actions to strengthen our operations and increase our competitiveness. the key areas of the plan include investments in our product portfolio, a revised brand strategy, significant management changes, reducing material, development and production costs, and further leveraging synergies from the alliance between us and psa. we believe it is likely that adverse economic conditions, and their effect on the european automotive industry will not improve significantly in the short-term and we expect to continue to incur losses in the region as a result. during the fourth quarter of 2012, notwithstanding the above described actions, gme performed below expectations relative to the key operating metrics of forecasted revenues, market share, and variable profit established in mid-2012. further, our industry outlook deteriorated, and our forecast of 2013 cash flows declined. this triggered a long-lived asset impairment analysis. we performed a recoverability test of the gme asset group by weighting various undiscounted cash flow scenarios. the weighting of the projected cash flows considers the uncertainty in our ability to execute the actions contemplated in our plan which, in part, are dependent upon actions and factors outside our control. our test concluded that the gme asset group was not recoverable as the resulting undiscounted cash flows were less than their carrying amount. accordingly, we estimated the fair value of the gme long-lived assets to determine the impairment amount. determining the fair value is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, considered to be level 3 inputs. to determine the estimated fair value of the brand intangible assets, we used the relief from royalty method, which is a form of the income approach. under this approach, revenue associated with the brand is projected over the expected remaining useful life of the asset. a royalty rate is then applied to estimate the royalty savings. the royalty rate used was based on an analysis of empirical, market-derived royalty rates for guideline intangible assets and a profit split analysis to determine a rate that is economically supported by gme's forecasted profitability. the net after-tax royalty savings are calculated for each year during the remaining economic life of the asset and discounted to present value. to determine the estimated fair value of the dealer network, we used the cost approach with adjustments in value for the overcapacity of dealers and the sales environment in the region. we determined the fair value to be $0 . the following table summarizes the significant level 3 inputs for brand intangible assets measurements: valuation technique unobservable input(s) percentage brand intangible assets income approach long-term growth rate 0.50% pre-tax royalty rate(a) 0.14% discount rate(b) 21.25% __________ (a) represents estimated savings realized from owning the asset or having the royalty-free right to use the asset. (b) represents wacc adjusted for perceived business risks related to these intangible assets. as a result of our fair value estimates, we adjusted the carrying amount of the gme intangible assets to fair value and recorded asset impairment charges of $1.8 billion at december 31, 2012. these charges were recorded in our gme segment with $1.6 billion recorded in automotive selling, general and administrative expense and $0.2 billion recorded in automotive cost of sales. the fair value estimates for gme's intangible assets are based on a valuation premise that assumes the assets' highest and best use are different than their current use due to the overall european macro-economic environment. the following table summarizes brand intangible assets in gme measured at fair value utilizing level 3 inputs on a nonrecurring basis (dollars in millions): fair value measure level 1 level 2 level 3 total impairment year ended december 31, 2012 $ 139 $ $ $ 139 $ 1,755 115 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) our recoverability test of the gme asset group includes real and personal property, resulting in additional impairment charges of $3.7 billion at december 31, 2012, for a total of $5.5 billion . refer to note 11 for additional information regarding the impairment of real and personal property. note 14. restricted cash and marketable securities we are required to post cash and marketable securities as collateral as part of certain agreements that we enter into as part of our operations. cash and marketable securities subject to contractual restrictions and not readily available are classified as restricted cash and marketable securities. restricted cash and marketable securities are invested in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreements. refer to note 7 for additional information on securities classified as restricted cash and marketable securities. automotive at december 31, 2012 and 2011 we held securities of $403 million and $562 million that were classified as restricted cash and marketable securities. the following table summarizes the components of restricted cash and marketable securities (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 current total current restricted cash and marketable securities(a) $ 220 $ 206 non-current collateral for insurance related activities 74 407 other restricted cash and marketable securities(a) 306 505 total non-current restricted cash and marketable securities 380 912 total restricted cash and marketable securities $ 600 $ 1,118 __________ (a) includes amounts related to various deposits, escrows and other cash collateral. automotive financing - gm financial the following table summarizes the components of restricted cash (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 current securitization notes and credit facilities $ 442 $ 758 other(a) 24 41 total current restricted cash 466 799 non-current securitization notes and credit facilities 302 298 other(a) 18 total non-current restricted cash 302 316 total restricted cash $ 768 $ 1,115 __________ (a) pledged in association with derivative transactions and cash collections related to leases serviced for a third-party. note 15. variable interest entities consolidated vies automotive vies that we do not control through a majority voting interest that are consolidated because we are the primary beneficiary 116 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) include certain vehicle assembling, manufacturing and selling venture arrangements, the most significant of which is gm egypt. we consolidated gm egypt in january 2010 in connection with our adoption of amendments to asc 810, "consolidation." gm egypt, a 31% owned operating entity, assembles and manufactures vehicles. certain voting and other rights permit us to direct those activities of gm egypt that most significantly affect its economic performance. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 ; (1) total assets of these vies were $436 million and $463 million , which were composed of cash and cash equivalents, accounts and notes receivables, net, inventories, and property, net; and (2) total liabilities were $254 million and $298 million , which were composed of accounts payable (principally trade), and accrued and other liabilities. in the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 total net sales and revenue recorded for these consolidated vies were $1.0 billion and $748 million and net income was $56 million and $61 million . these amounts are stated prior to intercompany eliminations. liabilities recognized as a result of consolidating vies generally do not represent claims against us or our other subsidiaries and assets recognized generally are for the benefit of the vies' operations and cannot be used to satisfy our obligations. hkjv and gm korea are non-wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries that we control through a majority voting interest. they are also vies because in the future they may require additional subordinated financial support. the following table summarizes the liabilities of hkjv and gm korea for which their creditors do not have recourse to our general credit (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 gm korea hkjv(a) total gm korea short-term debt $ 124 $ 104 $ 228 $ 171 current derivative $ 18 $ $ 18 $ 44 long-term debt $ 2 $ 120 $ 122 $ 7 __________ (a) consolidated effective september 1, 2012. refer to notes 4 and 10 for additional information on the acquisition of hkjv. in february 2011 we provided a guarantee to a minority shareholder in gm korea to repurchase the gm korea mandatorily redeemable preferred shares according to the redemption schedule should gm korea not repurchase the shares. this guarantee decreased the amount of long-term debt which did not have recourse to our general credit in the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011. automotive financing - gm financial gm financial finances its loan and lease origination volume through the use of credit facilities and securitization trusts that issue asset-backed securities to investors. gm financial retains a residual interest in these entities and is not required to provide any additional financial support to its sponsored credit facilities and securitization spes. the spes are considered vies because they do not have sufficient equity at risk and are consolidated because gm financial has the power over those activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of the spes. the finance receivables, leased assets and other assets held by these subsidiaries are not available to our creditors or creditors of our other subsidiaries. refer to notes 5 , 6 and 17 for additional information on gm financial's involvement with the spes. nonconsolidated vies automotive vies that are not consolidated include certain vehicle assembling, manufacturing and selling venture arrangements and other automotive related entities to which we provided financial support, including hkjv prior to september 2012 and ally financial. we concluded these entities are vies because they do not have sufficient equity at risk or may require additional subordinated financial support. we currently lack the power through voting or similar rights to direct those activities of these entities that most significantly affect their economic performance. our variable interests in these nonconsolidated vies include accounts and notes receivable, equity in net assets, guarantees and financial support, some of which were provided to certain current or previously divested suppliers in order to ensure that supply needs for production were not disrupted due to a supplier's liquidity concerns or possible shutdowns. the following table summarizes the amounts recorded for nonconsolidated vies and the related off-balance sheet guarantees 117 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) and maximum exposure to loss, excluding ally financial that is disclosed in note 27 (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 carrying amount maximum exposure to loss carrying amount maximum exposure to loss assets equity in net assets of nonconsolidated affiliates $ 117 $ 113 $ 190 $ 186 other assets 12 12 2 2 total assets $ 129 $ 125 $ 192 $ 188 liabilities other liabilities $ 45 $ 198 off-balance sheet loan commitments $ 15 $ 15 other liquidity arrangements(a) 17 220 total guarantees and liquidity arrangements $ 32 $ 235 __________ (a) amounts at december 31, 2011 represented additional contingent future capital funding requirements related primarily to hkjv. refer to note 27 for additional information on ally financial, including our maximum exposure to loss under agreements with ally financial and our recorded investment in ally financial. refer to notes 4 and 10 for additional information on our investment in hkjv. note 16. accrued liabilities, other liabilities and deferred income taxes the following table summarizes the components of accrued liabilities and other liabilities and deferred income taxes (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 current dealer and customer allowances, claims and discounts $ 7,722 $ 6,820 deposits primarily from rental car companies 4,250 4,883 deferred revenue 1,326 1,137 policy, product warranty and recall campaigns 2,919 3,061 payrolls and employee benefits excluding postemployment benefits 2,144 1,993 other 4,947 4,981 total accrued liabilities $ 23,308 $ 22,875 non-current deferred revenue $ 1,169 $ 1,300 policy, product warranty and recall campaigns 4,285 3,539 employee benefits excluding postemployment benefits 1,359 1,380 postemployment benefits including facility idling reserves 1,518 1,674 other 4,838 4,549 total other liabilities and deferred income taxes $ 13,169 $ 12,442 the following table summarizes activity for policy, product warranty, recall campaigns and certified used vehicle warranty liabilities (dollars in millions): 118 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 beginning balance $ 6,600 $ 6,789 $ 7,030 warranties issued and assumed in period 3,394 3,062 3,204 payments (3,393 ) (3,740 ) (3,662 ) adjustments to pre-existing warranties 539 565 210 effect of foreign currency translation 64 (76 ) 7 ending balance $ 7,204 $ 6,600 $ 6,789 note 17 . short-term and long-term debt automotive short-term debt and long-term debt the following table summarizes the components of our short-term debt and long-term debt (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 short-term debt wholesale financing(a) $ 889 $ 1,081 gm korea mandatorily redeemable preferred shares 467 312 capital leases 183 139 other short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt 209 150 total automotive short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt 1,748 1,682 long-term debt canadian health care trust (hct) notes 1,239 1,141 gm korea mandatorily redeemable preferred shares 666 capital leases 855 853 other long-term debt(a) 1,330 953 total automotive long-term debt 3,424 3,613 total automotive debt(b) $ 5,172 $ 5,295 fair value of automotive debt(c) $ 5,298 $ 5,467 available under credit facility agreements $ 11,119 $ 5,308 interest rate range on outstanding debt(d) 0.0-19.0% 0.0-19.0% weighted-average interest rate on outstanding short-term debt(d) 3.7 % 5.0 % weighted-average interest rate on outstanding long-term debt(d) 4.0 % 3.6 % __________ (a) includes debt obligations to ally financial of $869 million and $1.1 billion at december 31, 2012 and 2011. (b) net of a $1.1 billion and $1.6 billion discount at december 31, 2012 and 2011. (c) the fair value of debt included $4.1 billion and $4.4 billion measured utilizing level 2 inputs at december 31, 2012 and 2011. the fair value of debt included $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion measured utilizing level 3 inputs at december 31, 2012 and 2011. (d) includes coupon rates on debt denominated in various foreign currencies and interest free loans. the level 2 fair value measurements utilize a discounted cash flow model. the valuation is reviewed internally by personnel with appropriate expertise in valuation methodologies. this model utilizes observable inputs such as contractual repayment terms and benchmark forward yield curves, plus a spread that is intended to represent our nonperformance risk for secured or unsecured obligations. we estimate our nonperformance risk using our corporate credit rating, the rating on our secured revolving credit facilities, yields on traded bonds of companies with comparable credit ratings and risk profiles. we acquire the benchmark yield curves and nonperformance risk spread from independent sources that are widely used in the financial industry. in certain 119 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) circumstances we adjust the valuation of debt for additional nonperformance risk or potential prepayment probability scenarios. we may use a probability weighting of prepayment scenarios when the stated rate exceeds market rates and the instrument contains prepayment features. the prepayment scenarios are adjusted to reflect the views of market participants. the fair value measurements subject to additional adjustments for nonperformance risk or prepayment have been categorized within level 3. the following table summarizes our short-term and long-term debt by collateral type (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 unsecured debt $ 2,952 3,065 secured debt(a) 1,182 1,238 capital leases 1,038 992 total automotive debt $ 5,172 $ 5,295 __________ (a) includes wholesale financing of dealer inventory. wholesale financing wholesale financing represents arrangements, primarily with ally financial, where cash is received in advance of the final sale of vehicles, parts and accessories to our dealers or ultimate consumer. these obligations typically settle through the sale and delivery of our product and generally do not require cash outflows to settle. balances under these facilities fluctuate period to period based on the volume of vehicles financed. hct notes as part of the establishment of the hct to provide retiree healthcare benefits to certain active and retired employees in canada, we issued notes to the hct with a fair value of $1.1 billion in october 2011. we recorded a premium of $42 million at issuance. the notes accrue interest at an annual rate of 7.0% . the notes are due in periodic installments through 2018. we may prepay these notes at any time. refer to note 18 for additional information on the hct settlement. gm korea preferred shares gm korea has outstanding non-convertible mandatorily redeemable preferred shares. dividends accrued at a rate of 2.5% through october 2012 at which time the rate increased to 7.0% and remains in effect through 2017. the mandatorily redeemable preferred shares are redeemable in periodic installments through 2017. in february 2011 we provided a guarantee to repurchase the mandatorily redeemable preferred shares according to the redemption schedule if gm korea does not have sufficient legally distributable earnings. in december 2012 gm korea made a payment of $671 million to redeem early a portion of shares that had a carrying amount of $429 million and the difference was recorded as a loss on extinguishment of debt. gm korea has the option to redeem the remainder of the shares early provided sufficient legally distributable earnings exist. secured revolving credit facilities in november 2012 we entered into two new secured revolving credit facilities with an aggregate borrowing capacity of $11.0 billion . these facilities consist of a three-year, $5.5 billion facility and a five-year, $5.5 billion facility and replaced our previous five-year, $5.0 billion secured revolving credit facility that we entered into in october 2010. availability under the secured revolving credit facilities is subject to borrowing base restrictions. the three-year, $5.5 billion facility is available to gm financial as well as certain wholly-owned domestic and international subsidiaries. the facility includes various sub-limits including a gm financial borrowing sub-limit of $4.0 billion , a multi-currency borrowing sub-limit of $3.5 billion , a brazilian real borrowing sub-limit of approximately $485 million and a letter of credit sub-facility limit of $1.5 billion . we had amounts in use under the letter of credit sub-facility of $207 million at december 31, 2012. the five-year, $5.5 billion facility allows for borrowings in u.s. dollars and other currencies and includes a letter of credit sub-limit of $500 million . this facility is not available to gm financial. 120 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) our obligations under the secured revolving credit facilities are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries and by a substantial portion of our domestic assets including accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and equipment, intellectual property and trademarks, equity interests in certain of our direct domestic subsidiaries as well as up to 65% of the voting equity interests in certain of our direct foreign subsidiaries, in each case, subject to certain exceptions. the collateral securing the secured revolving credit facilities does not include, among other assets, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as well as our investments in gm financial, gm korea and in our china jvs. if we receive an investment grade corporate rating from two or more of the following credit rating agencies: fitch ratings, moody's investor service and standard &amp; poor's, we will no longer have to post collateral or provide guarantees from certain domestic subsidiaries under the terms of the facilities. if we fail to maintain an investment grade corporate rating from at least two of the above listed rating agencies, these guarantees will be reinstated. the secured revolving credit facilities contain representations, warranties and covenants customary for facilities of this nature, including negative covenants restricting incurring liens, consummating mergers or sales of assets and incurring secured indebtedness, and restricting us from making restricted payments, in each case, subject to exceptions and limitations. these restricted payments include, among others, limitations on our ability to pay dividends and purchase our common stock in certain circumstances. the facilities contain minimum liquidity covenants, which require us to maintain at least $4.0 billion in consolidated global liquidity and at least $2.0 billion in consolidated u.s. liquidity. interest rates on obligations under the secured revolving credit facilities are based on prevailing per annum interest rates for eurodollar loans or an alternative base rate plus an applicable margin, in each case, based upon the credit rating assigned to the secured revolving credit facilities or our corporate rating depending on certain criteria. ust credit agreement in april 2010 we repaid the full outstanding amount under the loan agreement with the united states department of the treasury (ust). amounts repaid under the agreement may not be reborrowed. while we have repaid the loans from the ust in full, certain of the covenants in the ust credit agreement remain, including covenants regarding executive compensation and expense policies. these covenants remain effective until it is determined that we are not a recipient of exceptional financial assistance or their earlier termination. gains (losses) on extinguishment of debt in the year ended december 31, 2012 we prepaid and retired debt obligations with a total carrying amount of $514 million and recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $250 million which primarily represented the unamortized debt discount on the gm korea mandatorily redeemable preferred shares of $242 million . in the year ended december 31, 2011 we prepaid and retired in full debt facilities of $1.0 billion held by certain of our subsidiaries, primarily in gmna and gmsa, and recorded a gain on these debt facilities of $18 million . in the year ended december 31, 2010 we repaid in full the outstanding amount (together with accreted interest thereon) of the veba note agreement (veba notes) of $2.8 billion , which resulted in a gain on extinguishment debt of $198 million . technical defaults and covenant violations several of our loan facilities, including our secured revolving credit facilities require compliance with certain financial and operational covenants as well as regular reporting to lenders, including providing certain subsidiary financial statements. failure to meet certain of these requirements may result in a covenant violation or an event of default depending on the terms of the agreement. an event of default may allow lenders to declare amounts outstanding under these agreements immediately due and payable, to enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements or restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings. no technical defaults or covenant violations existed at december 31, 2012 . automotive financing - gm financial the following table summarizes the current and non-current portion of debt (dollars in millions): 121 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt $ 3,770 $ 4,118 long-term debt 7,108 4,420 total gm financial debt $ 10,878 $ 8,538 the following table summarizes the carrying amount and fair value of debt (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 level carrying amount fair value carrying amount fair value credit facilities medium-term note facility 3 $ $ $ 294 $ 294 syndicated warehouse facility 2 621 621 lease warehouse facilities 2 354 354 181 181 bank funding facility 3 3 3 total credit facilities 354 354 1,099 1,099 securitization notes payable securitization notes payable 1 8,534 8,669 6,938 6,946 private securitization 2012-pp1 3 490 502 total securitization notes payable 9,024 9,171 6,938 6,946 senior notes 2 1,500 1,620 501 511 total gm financial debt $ 10,878 $ 11,145 $ 8,538 $ 8,556 the carrying amounts of the syndicated warehouse facility and lease warehouse facilities are considered to be a reasonable estimate of their fair values because these facilities have variable rates of interest and maturities of approximately one year. the fair values of the bank funding facility, securitization notes payable and senior notes are based on quoted market prices, when available. if quoted prices are not available the market value is estimated by discounting future net cash flows expected to be settled using a current risk-adjusted rate. the estimated fair value of the medium-term note facility is based on observable and unobservable inputs. observable inputs are used regarding an advance rate on the receivables to generate an estimated debt amount as well as the interest rate used to calculate the series of estimated principal payments. those series of principal and interest payments are discounted using an unobservable interest rate based on the most recent securitization in order to estimate fair value which would approximate the market value. gm financial uses observable and unobservable inputs to estimate the fair value for the private securitization 2012-pp1. unobservable inputs are related to the structuring of the debt into various classes, which is based on public securitizations issued during the same time frame. observable inputs are used by obtaining active prices based on the securitization debt issued during the same time frame. these observable inputs are then used to create expected market prices (unobservable inputs), which are then applied to the debt classes in order to estimate fair value which would approximate market value. credit facilities the following table summarizes further details regarding terms and availability of gm financial's credit facilities at december 31, 2012 (dollars in millions): facility amount advances outstanding assets pledged restricted cash pledged(a) syndicated warehouse facility(b) $ 2,500 $ $ $ canada lease warehouse facility(c) $ 803 354 540 3 u.s. lease warehouse facility(d) $ 600 $ 354 $ 540 $ 3 122 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) __________ (a) these amounts do not include cash collected on finance receivables and leasing related assets pledged of $12 million which is included in restricted cash and marketable securities. (b) in may 2013 when the revolving period ends, and if the facility is not renewed, the outstanding balance will be repaid over time based on the amortization of the receivables pledged until february 2020 when the remaining balance will be due and payable. (c) in july 2013 when the revolving period ends, and if the facility is not renewed, the outstanding balance will be repaid over time based on the amortization of the leasing related assets pledged until january 2019 when any remaining balance will be due and payable. borrowings in the facility are collateralized by leased assets. at december 31, 2012 the facility amount represents canadian dollar (cad) $800 million and the advances outstanding amount represents cad $353 million . (d) in january 2013 gm financial extended the maturity date of this facility to may 2014 . in may 2014 when the revolving period ends, and if the facility is not renewed, the outstanding balance will be repaid over time based on the amortization of the related leased assets pledged until november 2019 when any remaining amount outstanding will be due and payable. as previously described gm financial has the ability to borrow against our three-year $5.5 billion secured revolving credit facility. credit facility covenants gm financial is required to hold certain funds in restricted cash accounts to provide additional collateral for borrowings under the credit facilities. gm financial's funding agreements contain various covenants requiring minimum financial ratios, asset quality and portfolio performance ratios (portfolio net loss and delinquency ratios, and pool level cumulative net loss ratios) as well as limits on deferment levels. failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. if an event of default occurs under these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements, restrict gm financial's ability to obtain additional borrowings and/or remove gm financial as servicer. as of december 31, 2012 gm financial was in compliance with all covenants in its credit facilities. securitization notes payable securitization notes payable represents debt issued by gm financial in securitization transactions. debt issuance costs are amortized over the expected term of the securitizations on an effective yield basis. as a result of the acquisition, gm financial recorded a purchase accounting premium of $133 million that is being amortized over the expected term of the notes. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 unamortized purchase accounting premium of $11 million and $43 million is included in securitization notes payable. the following table summarizes securitization notes payable (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 year of transactions maturity dates(a) original note amounts original weighted-average interest rates total receivables pledged note balance note balance 2006 january 2014 $ 1,200 5.4 % $ $ $ 63 2007 october 2013 - march 2016 $ 1,000 - 1,500 5.2% - 5.5% 794 2008 january 2015 - april 2015 $ 500 8.7% - 10.5% 147 24 171 2009 january 2016 - july 2017 $ 227 - 725 2.7% - 7.5% 207 160 298 2010 july 2017 - april 2018 $ 200 - 850 2.2% - 3.8% 1,230 1,095 1,756 2011 july 2018 - march 2019 $ 800 - 1,000 2.4% - 2.9% 2,728 2,519 3,813 2012 june 2019 - may 2020 $ 800 - 1,300 1.4% - 2.9% 5,590 5,215 $ 9,902 9,013 6,895 purchase accounting premium 11 43 total securitization notes payable $ 9,024 $ 6,938 __________ (a) maturity dates represent final legal maturity of securitization notes payable. securitization notes payable are expected to be paid based on amortization of the finance receivables pledged to the trusts. at the time of securitization of finance receivables, gm financial is required to pledge assets equal to a specified percentage 123 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) of the securitization pool to support the securitization transaction. the assets pledged consist of cash deposited to a restricted account and additional receivables delivered to the trust, which create overcollateralization. the securitization transactions require the percentage of assets pledged to support the transaction to increase until a specified level is attained. excess cash flows generated by the trusts are added to the restricted cash account or used to pay down outstanding debt in the trusts, creating overcollateralization until the targeted percentage level of assets has been reached. once the targeted percentage level of assets is reached and maintained, excess cash flows generated by the trusts are released to gm financial as distributions from trusts. as the balance of the securitization pool declines, the amount of pledged assets needed to maintain the required percentage level is reduced. assets in excess of the required percentage are also released to gm financial as distributions from trusts. senior notes in august 2012 gm financial issued 4.75% senior notes of $1.0 billion which are due in august 2017 with interest payable semiannually. gm financial intends to use the net proceeds from this offering for general corporate purposes including, but not limited to, acquisitions. the notes are guaranteed by gm financial's principal operating subsidiary. in connection with the issuance of these senior notes, gm financial entered into a registration rights agreement that requires gm financial to file a registration statement with the securities and exchange commission (sec) for an exchange offer with respect to the 4.75% senior notes and the subsidiary guaranty. if the registration statement has not been declared effective by the sec within 365 days from the original issuance of the senior notes or ceases to remain effective, gm financial will be required to pay the 4.75% senior note holders a maximum amount of $0.50 per week of additional interest per $1,000 of principal during the time the registration statement is not effective, for a period of up to one year. in june 2011 gm financial issued 6.75% senior notes of $500 million which are due in june 2018 with interest payable semiannually. in july 2011 proceeds of $71 million from this offering were used to redeem all of gm financial's outstanding 8.50% senior notes due in 2015 . the remaining proceeds are to be used for general corporate purposes. interest expense consolidated the following table summarizes interest expense (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 loans from ust $ $ $ 117 canadian loan 26 veba notes 166 capital leases 98 101 72 amortization of debt discounts and issuance fees 189 200 163 ally financial, primarily wholesale financing 41 63 243 other 161 176 311 total automotive interest expense 489 540 1,098 gm financial interest expense 283 204 37 total interest expense $ 772 $ 744 $ 1,135 debt maturities consolidated the following table summarizes contractual maturities including capital leases at december 31, 2012 (dollars in millions): 124 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) automotive automotive financing(a) total 2013 $ 1,289 $ 3,760 $ 5,049 2014 315 2,324 2,639 2015 473 1,772 2,245 2016 363 1,073 1,436 2017 1,391 1,438 2,829 thereafter 2,369 500 2,869 $ 6,200 $ 10,867 $ 17,067 __________ (a) gm financial credit facilities and securitization notes payable are based on expected payoff date. senior notes principal amounts are based on maturity. at december 31, 2012 future interest payments on automotive capital lease obligations were $644 million . gm financial does not have capital lease obligations at december 31, 2012 . note 18. pensions and other postretirement benefits employee pension and other postretirement benefit plans defined benefit pension plans defined benefit pension plans covering eligible u.s. hourly employees (hired prior to october 15, 2007) and canadian hourly employees generally provide benefits of negotiated, stated amounts for each year of service and supplemental benefits for employees who retire with 30 years of service before normal retirement age. the benefits provided by the defined benefit pension plans covering eligible u.s. (hired prior to january 1, 2001) and canadian salaried employees and employees in certain other non-u.s. locations are generally based on years of service and compensation history. accrual of defined pension benefits ceased on september 30, 2012 for u.s. salaried employees and on december 31, 2012 for canadian salaried employees. there is also an unfunded nonqualified pension plan covering primarily u.s. executives for service prior to january 1, 2007 and it is based on an excess plan for service after that date. pension contributions the funding policy for qualified defined benefit pension plans is to contribute annually not less than the minimum required by applicable law and regulations or to directly pay benefit payments where appropriate. at december 31, 2012 all legal funding requirements had been met. we expect to contribute $97 million to our u.s. non-qualified plans and $823 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2013. the following table summarizes contributions made to the defined benefit pension plans or direct payments to plan beneficiaries (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 u.s. hourly and salaried $ 2,420 $ 1,962 $ 4,095 non-u.s. 855 836 777 total $ 3,275 $ 2,798 $ 4,872 we made a voluntary contribution in january 2011 to our u.s. hourly and salaried defined benefit pension plans of 61 million shares of our common stock valued at $2.2 billion for funding purposes at the time of contribution. the contributed shares qualified as a plan asset for funding purposes at the time of contribution and as a plan asset valued at $1.9 billion for accounting purposes in july 2011. this was a voluntary contribution above our funding requirements for the pension plans. we continue to pursue various options to fund and derisk our pension plans, including continued changes to the pension asset 125 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) portfolio mix to reduce funded status volatility. other postretirement benefit plans certain hourly and salaried defined benefit plans provide postretirement medical, dental, legal service and life insurance to eligible u.s. and canadian retirees and their eligible dependents. certain other non-u.s. subsidiaries have postretirement benefit plans, although most non-u.s. employees are covered by government sponsored or administered programs. opeb contributions the following table summarizes contributions to the u.s. opeb plans (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 employer contributions $ 432 $ 426 $ 651 plan participants' contributions 4 13 53 total contributions $ 436 $ 439 $ 704 for the year ended december 31, 2011 we also contributed $1.9 billion to the independent hct consisting of restricted cash of $0.8 billion and notes payable of $1.1 billion . defined contribution plans we have a defined contribution plan for eligible u.s. salaried employees. this plan provides discretionary matching contributions which we instituted in october 2009. u.s. hourly employees hired after october 1, 2007 also participate in a defined contribution plan. contributions are also made to certain non-u.s. defined contribution plans. the following table summarizes our contributions to defined contribution plans (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 total contributions $ 352 $ 297 $ 241 significant plan amendments, benefit modifications and related events u.s. salaried defined benefit pension plan in january 2012 we amended the salaried pension plan to cease the accrual of additional benefits effective september 30, 2012. this amendment resulted in a curtailment which decreased the pension liability and decreased the net pre-tax actuarial loss component of accumulated other comprehensive loss by $309 million . active plan participants receive additional contributions in the defined contribution plan starting in october 2012. in august 2012 the salaried pension plan was amended to divide the plan to create a new legally separate defined benefit plan primarily for active and terminated vested participants. after the amendment the original salaried pension plan (retiree plan) covers the majority of retirees currently receiving payments. as a result of this amendment a remeasurement of the retiree plan on august 1, 2012 increased the pension liability and the net pre-tax actuarial loss component of accumulated other comprehensive loss by $654 million , due primarily to a decrease in the discount rate from 4.21% to 3.37% on a weighted-average basis, partially offset by actual asset returns in excess of expected amounts. in august 2012 lump-sum distributions of $3.6 billion were made from the retiree plan to 12,500 plan participants resulting in a partial plan settlement necessitating a plan remeasurement for the retiree plan on august 31, 2012. the settlement resulted in a pre-tax loss of $54 million . the effect on our financial condition was insignificant. in november and december 2012 the retiree plan purchased group annuity contracts from an insurance company and paid a total annuity premium of $25.1 billion and the retiree plan settled two other previously guaranteed obligations, with separate 126 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) insurance companies, totaling $1.9 billion . these agreements unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee the full payment of all annuity payments to the participants in the retiree plan and assume all investment risk associated with the assets that were delivered as the annuity contract premiums. through these annuity purchase transactions we have settled the remaining obligations of the retiree plan in their entirety resulting in a pre-tax settlement loss of $2.5 billion ( $2.1 billion after tax) in automotive cost of sales. the pre-tax loss is composed of existing losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss of $377 million , and the premium paid to the insurance company of $2.1 billion . the tax benefit of $413 million is composed of the statutory tax benefit of $1.0 billion offset by tax expense of $596 million associated with the removal of prior period income tax allocations between accumulated other comprehensive loss and income tax expense (benefit). in 2012 we provided short-term, interest-free, unsecured loans to the retiree plan to provide the plan with incremental liquidity to pay ongoing benefits and administrative costs. in august 2012 we loaned the retiree plan $2.0 billion with principal due within 90 days . in the three months ended december 31, 2012 $1.5 billion of the $2.0 billion loan was contributed to the retiree plan, $250 million was repaid to us and the remaining $250 million , which had been converted into a new interest-free loan, is due on or before april 15, 2013. in october 2012 we provided a loan of $180 million to the retiree plan that was repaid to us in december 2012. at december 31, 2012 $160 million of the remaining $250 million loan was deemed a contribution. amounts loaned to the retiree plan in excess of the ultimate funding requirements will be repaid to us. canadian salaried defined benefit plans in june 2012 we amended the canadian salaried pension plan to cease the accrual of additional benefits effective december 31, 2012 and provide active employees a lump-sum distribution option at retirement. the remeasurement, amendments and offsetting curtailment increased the pension liability by $84 million , and resulted in a net decrease in the pre-tax components of accumulated other comprehensive loss comprising net actuarial loss of $58 million , net actuarial curtailment gain of $20 million and prior service cost of $46 million . active plan participants will receive additional contributions in the defined contribution plan starting in january 2013. we also amended the canadian salaried retiree healthcare plan to eliminate post-65 healthcare benefits for employees retiring on or after july 1, 2014. in conjunction with this change we amended the plan to offer either a monthly monetary payment or an annual lump-sum cash payment to a defined contribution plan for health care in lieu of the benefit coverage provisions formerly provided under the healthcare plan. these amendments decreased the opeb liability by $28 million and resulted in a net increase in the pre-tax components of accumulated other comprehensive loss comprising prior service credit of $51 million and net actuarial loss of $23 million . canadian hct in october 2011 pursuant to a june 2009 agreement between general motors of canada limited (gmcl) and the caw an independent hct was implemented to provide retiree healthcare benefits to certain active and retired employees. concurrent with the implementation of the hct, gmcl was legally released from all obligations associated with the cost of providing retiree healthcare benefits to caw retirees and surviving spouses by the class action process and to caw active employees as of june 8, 2009. we accounted for the related termination of caw hourly retiree healthcare benefits as a settlement and recorded a gain of $749 million in automotive cost of sales. the settlement gain represents the difference between the healthcare plan obligation of $3.1 billion (as of the implementation date) and the fair value of the notes and restricted cash contributed totaling $1.9 billion , and recognition of accumulated other comprehensive loss of $414 million . other remeasurements in march 2012 certain pension plans in gme were remeasured as part of our goodwill impairment testing, resulting in an increase of $150 million in the pension liability and a pre-tax increase in the net actuarial loss component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. in september 2011 a plan which provides legal services to u.s. hourly employees and retirees was remeasured as a result of our labor agreement provisions which terminate the plan effective december 31, 2013. the negotiated termination has been accounted for as a negative plan amendment resulting in a decrease in the opeb liability and a pre-tax increase of $266 million in the prior service credit component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, which is being amortized through december 31, 127 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 2013. in march 2011 certain pension plans in gme were remeasured as part of our goodwill impairment testing, resulting in a decrease of $272 million in the pension liability and a pre-tax increase in the net actuarial gain component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. refer to note 12 for additional information on our goodwill impairment. pension and opeb obligations and plan assets the following tables summarize the change in benefit obligations and related plan assets (dollars in millions): year ended december 31, 2012 pension benefits other benefits u.s. plans non-u.s. plans u.s. plans non-u.s. plans change in benefit obligations beginning benefit obligation $ 108,562 $ 25,765 $ 5,822 $ 1,490 service cost 452 383 23 16 interest cost 4,055 1,110 234 63 plan participants' contributions 7 4 1 amendments (32 ) 139 (52 ) actuarial losses 8,432 2,774 622 13 benefits paid (8,422 ) (1,551 ) (436 ) (55 ) foreign currency translation adjustments 682 30 curtailments, settlements and other (30,937 ) (8 ) 2 22 ending benefit obligation 82,110 29,301 6,271 1,528 change in plan assets beginning fair value of plan assets 94,349 14,541 actual return on plan assets 10,332 1,344 employer contributions 2,420 855 432 54 plan participants' contributions 7 4 1 benefits paid (8,422 ) (1,551 ) (436 ) (55 ) foreign currency translation adjustments 389 settlements (30,629 ) (207 ) other 35 163 ending fair value of plan assets 68,085 15,541 ending funded status $ (14,025 ) $ (13,760 ) $ (6,271 ) $ (1,528 ) amounts recorded in the consolidated balance sheets non-current assets $ $ 73 $ $ current liabilities (95 ) (343 ) (406 ) (84 ) non-current liabilities (13,930 ) (13,490 ) (5,865 ) (1,444 ) net amount recorded $ (14,025 ) $ (13,760 ) $ (6,271 ) $ (1,528 ) amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss net actuarial loss $ (1,434 ) $ (4,786 ) $ (1,573 ) $ (188 ) net prior service (cost) credit 42 (111 ) 135 118 total recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (1,392 ) $ (4,897 ) $ (1,438 ) $ (70 ) 128 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) year ended december 31, 2011 pension benefits other benefits u.s. plans non-u.s. plans u.s. plans non-u.s. plans change in benefit obligations beginning benefit obligation $ 103,395 $ 24,762 $ 5,667 $ 4,252 service cost 494 399 23 30 interest cost 4,915 1,215 265 186 plan participants' contributions 7 13 9 amendments (6 ) (10 ) (284 ) (2 ) actuarial losses 8,494 1,530 548 343 benefits paid (8,730 ) (1,561 ) (439 ) (180 ) early retirement reinsurance program receipts 29 foreign currency translation adjustments (508 ) (128 ) hct settlement (3,051 ) curtailments, settlements, and other (69 ) 31 ending benefit obligation 108,562 25,765 5,822 1,490 change in plan assets beginning fair value of plan assets 91,007 14,903 actual return on plan assets 10,087 686 employer contributions 1,962 836 426 171 plan participants' contributions 7 13 9 benefits paid (8,730 ) (1,561 ) (439 ) (180 ) foreign currency translation adjustments (258 ) settlements (34 ) other 23 (38 ) ending fair value of plan assets 94,349 14,541 ending funded status $ (14,213 ) $ (11,224 ) $ (5,822 ) $ (1,490 ) amounts recorded in the consolidated balance sheets non-current assets $ $ 61 $ $ current liabilities (99 ) (324 ) (411 ) (65 ) non-current liabilities (14,114 ) (10,961 ) (5,411 ) (1,425 ) net amount recorded $ (14,213 ) $ (11,224 ) $ (5,822 ) $ (1,490 ) amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss net actuarial loss $ (1,352 ) $ (2,498 ) $ (1,003 ) $ (177 ) net prior service credit 15 19 251 76 total recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (1,337 ) $ (2,479 ) $ (752 ) $ (101 ) the following table summarizes the total accumulated benefit obligations (abo), the fair value of plan assets for defined benefit pension plans with abo in excess of plan assets, and the projected benefit obligation (pbo) and fair value of plan assets for defined benefit pension plans with pbo in excess of plan assets (dollars in millions): 129 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 u.s. plans non-u.s. plans u.s. plans non-u.s. plans abo $ 82,103 $ 28,880 $ 108,195 $ 25,404 plans with abo in excess of plan assets abo $ 82,103 $ 28,156 $ 108,195 $ 24,687 fair value of plan assets $ 68,085 $ 14,702 $ 94,349 $ 13,738 plans with pbo in excess of plan assets pbo $ 82,110 $ 28,537 $ 108,562 $ 25,024 fair value of plan assets $ 68,085 $ 14,704 $ 94,349 $ 13,739 the following tables summarize the components of net periodic pension and opeb expense along with the assumptions used to determine benefit obligations (dollars in millions): year ended december 31, 2012 pension benefits other benefits u.s. plans non-u.s. plans u.s. plans non-u.s. plans components of expense service cost $ 590 $ 411 $ 23 $ 16 interest cost 4,055 1,110 234 63 expected return on plan assets (5,029 ) (870 ) amortization of prior service cost (credit) (1 ) 1 (116 ) (12 ) recognized net actuarial loss 2 35 52 6 curtailments, settlements and other losses 2,580 71 11 net periodic pension and opeb expense $ 2,197 $ 758 $ 193 $ 84 weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations discount rate 3.59 % 3.70 % 3.68 % 3.97 % rate of compensation increase(a) n/a 2.77 % 4.50 % 4.21 % weighted-average assumptions used to determine net expense discount rate 4.06 % 4.45 % 4.24 % 4.31 % expected return on plan assets 6.18 % 6.20 % n/a n/a rate of compensation increase 4.50 % 3.15 % 4.50 % 4.21 % _________ (a) as a result of ceasing the accrual of additional benefits for participants in the retiree plan in 2012, the rate of compensation increase does not have a significant effect on our u.s. pension plans. 130 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) year ended december 31, 2011 pension benefits other benefits u.s. plans non-u.s. plans u.s. plans non-u.s. plans components of expense service cost $ 632 $ 399 $ 23 $ 30 interest cost 4,915 1,215 265 186 expected return on plan assets (6,692 ) (925 ) amortization of prior service credit (2 ) (2 ) (39 ) (9 ) recognized net actuarial loss 6 curtailments, settlements and other gains (23 ) (7 ) (749 ) net periodic pension and opeb (income) expense $ (1,170 ) $ 680 $ 255 $ (542 ) weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations discount rate 4.15 % 4.50 % 4.24 % 4.37 % rate of compensation increase 4.50 % 3.11 % 4.50 % 4.20 % weighted-average assumptions used to determine net expense discount rate 4.96 % 5.16 % 5.05 % 5.01 % expected return on plan assets 8.00 % 6.50 % n/a n/a rate of compensation increase 3.96 % 3.25 % 4.50 % 4.42 % year ended december 31, 2010 pension benefits other benefits u.s. plans non-u.s. plans u.s. plans non-u.s. plans components of expense service cost $ 548 $ 386 $ 21 $ 32 interest cost 5,275 1,187 288 200 expected return on plan assets (6,611 ) (987 ) amortization of prior service cost (credit) (1 ) (1 ) 3 (9 ) recognized net actuarial loss 21 curtailments, settlements, and other losses 60 net periodic pension and opeb (income) expense $ (789 ) $ 666 $ 312 $ 223 weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations discount rate 4.96 % 5.09 % 5.07 % 4.97 % rate of compensation increase 3.96 % 3.25 % 1.41 % 4.33 % weighted-average assumptions used to determine net expense discount rate 5.36 % 5.19 % 5.57 % 5.22 % expected return on plan assets 8.48 % 7.42 % 8.50 % n/a rate of compensation increase 3.94 % 3.25 % 1.48 % 4.45 % u.s. pension plan service cost includes administrative expenses of $138 million , $138 million and $97 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 . weighted-average assumptions used to determine net expense are determined at the beginning of the period and updated for remeasurements. non-u.s. pension plan service cost includes administrative expenses of $28 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. 131 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table summarizes estimated amounts to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost in the year ended 2013 based on december 31, 2012 plan measurements (dollars in millions): u.s. pension plans non-u.s. pension plans u.s. other benefit plans non-u.s. other benefit plans amortization of prior service (credit) cost $ (4 ) $ 20 $ (116 ) $ (15 ) amortization of net actuarial loss (gain) 6 206 91 7 $ 2 $ 226 $ (25 ) $ (8 ) assumptions healthcare trend rate as a result of previous modifications made to healthcare plans, there are no significant uncapped u.s. healthcare plans remaining, therefore, the healthcare cost trend rate does not have a significant effect on our u.s. plans. the implementation of the hct at october 31, 2011 eliminated significant exposure to changes in the healthcare cost trend rate for non-u.s. plans. december 31, 2010 assumed healthcare trend rates initial healthcare cost trend rate 5.6% ultimate healthcare cost trend rate 3.4% number of years to ultimate trend rate 8 healthcare trend rate assumptions are determined for inclusion in healthcare opeb valuation at each remeasurement. the healthcare trend rates are developed using historical cash expenditures and near-term outlook for retiree healthcare. this information is supplemented with information gathered from actuarial based models, information obtained from healthcare providers and known significant events. the following table summarizes the effect of a one-percentage point change in the assumed healthcare trend rates for non-u.s. plans (dollars in millions): effect on 2011 aggregate service and interest cost effect on december 31, 2010 apbo change in assumption one percentage point increase $ 31 $ 491 one percentage point decrease $ (25 ) $ (392 ) investment strategies and long-term rate of return detailed periodic studies conducted by outside actuaries and an internal asset management group, consisting of an analysis of capital market assumptions and employing monte-carlo simulations, are used to determine the long-term strategic mix among asset classes, risk mitigation strategies, and the expected long-term return on asset assumptions for the u.s. pension plans. the u.s. study includes a review of alternative asset allocation and risk mitigation strategies, anticipated future long-term performance of individual asset classes, risks evaluated using standard deviation techniques and correlations among the asset classes that comprise the plans' asset mix. similar studies are performed for the significant non-u.s. pension plans with the assistance of outside actuaries and asset managers. while the studies incorporate data from recent plan performance and historical returns, the expected long-term return on plan asset assumptions are determined based on long-term, prospective rates of return. the strategic asset mix and risk mitigation strategies for the plans are tailored specifically for each plan. individual plans have distinct liabilities, liquidity needs, and regulatory requirements. consequently, there are different investment policies set by individual plan fiduciaries. although investment policies and risk mitigation strategies may differ among plans, each investment strategy is considered to be appropriate in the context of the specific factors affecting each plan. 132 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) in setting new strategic asset mixes, consideration is given to the likelihood that the selected mixes will effectively fund the projected pension plan liabilities, while aligning with the risk tolerance of the plans' fiduciaries. the strategic asset mixes for u.s. defined benefit pension plans are increasingly designed to satisfy the complementary objectives of reaching fully funded positions (market value of assets equal to or greater than the present value of the liabilities) and mitigating the possibility of a deterioration in funded status. derivatives may be used to provide cost effective solutions for rebalancing investment portfolios, increasing or decreasing exposure to various asset classes and for mitigating risks, primarily interest rate and currency risks. equity and fixed income managers are permitted to utilize derivatives as efficient substitutes for traditional physical securities. interest rate derivatives may be used to adjust portfolio duration to align with a plan's targeted investment policy. alternative investment managers are permitted to employ leverage, including through the use of derivatives, which may alter economic exposure. in january 2013 an investment policy study was completed for the u.s. pension plans taking into account the new plan structures that followed the derisking initiatives and annuity transactions executed during the second half of 2012. the study resulted in new target asset allocations being approved for the u.s. pension plans with resulting changes to the expected long-term return on assets. the weighted-average long-term return on assets decreased from 6.2% at december 31, 2011 to 5.8% due primarily to lower yields on fixed income securities. the u.s. hourly plan assets now represent 91% of the total u.s. pension plan assets compared to 65% at the end of 2011. the expected long-term return on plan assets used in determining pension expense for non-u.s. plans is determined in a similar manner to the u.s. plans. the rates of 6.2% and 6.5% for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 represent weighted-average rates of all of the funded non-u.s. plans. target allocation percentages the following table summarizes the target allocations by asset category for u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 u.s. plans non-u.s. plans u.s. plans non-u.s. plans asset categories equity 19 % 30 % 14 % 34 % debt 60 % 53 % 66 % 45 % alternatives(a) 21 % 17 % 20 % 21 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % __________ (a) includes private equity, real estate and absolute return strategies which primarily consist of hedge funds. assets and fair value measurements the following tables summarize the fair value of defined benefit pension plan assets by asset class (dollars in millions): 133 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) fair value measurements of u.s. plan assets at december 31, 2012 fair value measurements of non-u.s. plan assets at december 31, 2012 total u.s. and non- u.s. plan assets assets level 1 level 2 level 3 total level 1 level 2 level 3 total cash equivalents and other short-term investments $ $ 551 $ $ 551 $ $ 151 $ $ 151 $ 702 common and preferred stocks(a) 9,663 26 19 9,708 2,227 2,227 11,935 government and agency debt securities(b) 17,835 17,835 3,722 3,722 21,557 corporate debt securities(c) 19,116 77 19,193 2,596 2 2,598 21,791 agency mortgage and asset-backed securities 1,544 1,544 38 38 1,582 non-agency mortgage and asset-backed securities 260 105 365 16 3 19 384 investment funds equity funds 66 253 195 514 212 2,009 2,221 2,735 fixed income funds 16 498 190 704 1,046 14 1,060 1,764 funds of hedge funds 3,768 3,768 627 627 4,395 global macro funds 111 11 122 122 multi-strategy funds 583 727 1,310 26 26 1,336 other investment funds(d) 143 68 211 9 9 220 private equity and debt investments(e) 6,400 6,400 381 381 6,781 real estate investments(f) 412 4,335 4,747 19 31 1,422 1,472 6,219 other investments 63 63 665 665 728 derivatives interest rate contracts 15 1,553 1,568 1,568 foreign currency exchange contracts 38 38 40 40 78 equity contracts 6 86 1 93 2 2 95 total assets 10,178 42,597 15,959 68,734 2,460 9,684 3,114 15,258 83,992 liabilities government and agency debt securities(g) (15 ) (15 ) (15 ) derivatives interest rate contracts (21 ) (977 ) (8 ) (1,006 ) (4 ) (4 ) (1,010 ) foreign currency exchange contracts (37 ) (37 ) (36 ) (36 ) (73 ) equity contracts (4 ) (86 ) (1 ) (91 ) (1 ) (1 ) (92 ) total liabilities (25 ) (1,115 ) (9 ) (1,149 ) (5 ) (36 ) (41 ) (1,190 ) net plan assets subject to leveling $ 10,153 $ 41,482 $ 15,950 67,585 $ 2,455 $ 9,648 $ 3,114 15,217 82,802 other plan assets and liabilities(h) 500 324 824 net plan assets $ 68,085 $ 15,541 $ 83,626 134 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) fair value measurements of u.s. plan assets at december 31, 2011 fair value measurements of non-u.s. plan assets at december 31, 2011 total u.s. and non- u.s. plan assets assets level 1 level 2 level 3 total level 1 level 2 level 3 total cash equivalents and other short-term investments $ $ 100 $ $ 100 $ $ 533 $ $ 533 $ 633 common and preferred stocks(a) 11,134 78 46 11,258 2,109 2 2,111 13,369 government and agency debt securities(b) 21,531 3 21,534 3,613 1 3,614 25,148 corporate debt securities(c) 22,725 352 23,077 1,820 4 1,824 24,901 agency mortgage and asset-backed securities 1,847 1,847 94 94 1,941 non-agency mortgage and asset-backed securities 1,399 197 1,596 49 4 53 1,649 group annuity contracts 3,209 3,209 3,209 investment funds equity funds 23 852 521 1,396 1,837 146 1,983 3,379 fixed income funds 1,092 1,210 2,302 1,142 20 1,162 3,464 funds of hedge funds 5,918 5,918 585 585 6,503 global macro funds 266 4 270 236 236 506 multi-strategy funds 24 949 2,123 3,096 24 24 3,120 other investment funds(d) 335 143 478 11 11 489 private equity and debt investments(e) 8,444 8,444 298 298 8,742 real estate investments(f) 1,279 5,092 6,371 13 27 1,345 1,385 7,756 other investments 428 428 428 derivatives interest rate contracts 138 4,180 9 4,327 4 4 4,331 foreign currency exchange contracts 152 152 59 59 211 equity contracts 61 15 76 17 17 93 credit contracts 79 79 79 total assets 12,659 55,600 27,271 95,530 2,143 9,200 3,078 14,421 109,951 liabilities agency mortgage and asset-backed securities(g) (67 ) (67 ) (67 ) derivatives interest rate contracts (28 ) (1,752 ) (2 ) (1,782 ) (4 ) (4 ) (1,786 ) foreign currency exchange contracts (75 ) (75 ) (46 ) (46 ) (121 ) equity contracts (17 ) (14 ) (31 ) (3 ) (3 ) (34 ) credit contracts (29 ) (6 ) (35 ) (35 ) total liabilities (45 ) (1,937 ) (8 ) (1,990 ) (7 ) (46 ) (53 ) (2,043 ) net plan assets subject to leveling $ 12,614 $ 53,663 $ 27,263 93,540 $ 2,136 $ 9,154 $ 3,078 14,368 107,908 other plan assets and liabilities(h) 809 173 982 net plan assets $ 94,349 $ 14,541 $ 108,890 __________ (a) includes gm common stock of $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion within level 1 of u.s. plan assets at december 31, 2012 and 2011. (b) includes u.s. and sovereign government and agency issues; excludes mortgage and asset-backed securities. (c) includes bank debt obligations. (d) primarily investments in alternative investment funds. (e) includes private equity investment funds. (f) includes investment funds and public real estate investment trusts. (g) primarily investments sold short. (h) cash held by the plans, net of amounts payable for investment manager fees, custody fees and other expenses. the following tables summarize the activity for u.s. plan assets classified in level 3 (dollars in millions): 135 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) balance at january 1, 2012 net realized/ unrealized gains (loss) purchases, sales and settlements, net transfers into/ out of level 3 balance at december 31, 2012 change in unrealized gains/(losses) attributable to assets held at december 31, 2012 assets common and preferred stocks $ 46 $ 1 $ (25 ) $ (3 ) $ 19 $ 3 government and agency debt securities 3 (1 ) (2 ) corporate debt securities 352 1 (258 ) (18 ) 77 (35 ) non-agency mortgage and asset- backed securities 197 34 (120 ) (6 ) 105 24 group annuity contracts 3,209 77 (3,286 ) investment funds equity funds 521 51 (414 ) 37 195 18 fixed income funds 1,210 47 (1,067 ) 190 (3 ) funds of hedge funds 5,918 310 (2,460 ) 3,768 239 global macro funds 4 (1 ) 8 11 multi-strategy funds 2,123 53 (1,453 ) 4 727 (6 ) other investment funds 143 2 (77 ) 68 4 private equity and debt investments 8,444 1,022 (3,038 ) (28 ) 6,400 154 real estate investments 5,092 198 (955 ) 4,335 (80 ) other investments 63 63 total assets 27,262 1,795 (13,093 ) (6 ) 15,958 318 derivatives, net interest rate contracts 7 3 (14 ) (4 ) (8 ) (1 ) equity contracts 1 (1 ) credit contracts (6 ) 6 total net assets $ 27,263 $ 1,799 $ (13,102 ) $ (10 ) $ 15,950 $ 317 136 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) balance at january 1, 2011 net realized/ unrealized gains (loss) purchases, sales and settlements, net transfers into/ out of level 3 balance at december 31, 2011 change in unrealized gains/(losses) attributable to assets held at december 31, 2011 assets common and preferred stocks $ 64 $ (4 ) $ (11 ) $ (3 ) $ 46 $ (53 ) government and agency debt securities 75 (9 ) (63 ) 3 1 corporate debt securities 562 (29 ) (168 ) (13 ) 352 (49 ) non-agency mortgage and asset- backed securities 821 (8 ) (625 ) 9 197 (57 ) group annuity contracts 3,115 302 (208 ) 3,209 302 investment funds equity funds 382 (129 ) 268 521 (120 ) fixed income funds 2,287 40 (1,026 ) (91 ) 1,210 124 funds of hedge funds 6,344 (56 ) (370 ) 5,918 (23 ) global macro funds 4 4 multi-strategy funds 3,546 (100 ) (1,297 ) (26 ) 2,123 63 other investment funds 186 (19 ) (24 ) 143 (19 ) private equity and debt investments 8,037 839 (432 ) 8,444 (12 ) real estate investments 5,508 799 (1,215 ) 5,092 382 total assets 30,931 1,626 (5,171 ) (124 ) 27,262 539 liabilities corporate debt securities (2 ) 2 total liabilities (2 ) 2 derivatives, net interest rate contracts (18 ) 25 7 25 foreign currency exchange contracts 1 (1 ) equity contracts (41 ) 50 (9 ) (1 ) credit contracts (1 ) (4 ) (1 ) (6 ) (7 ) total net assets $ 30,870 $ 1,697 $ (5,182 ) $ (122 ) $ 27,263 $ 556 the following tables summarize the activity for non-u.s. plan assets classified in level 3 (dollars in millions): 137 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) balance at january 1, 2012 net realized/ unrealized gains (loss) purchases, sales and settlements, net transfers into/out of level 3 foreign currency exchange rate movements balance at december 31, 2012 change in unrealized gains/(losses) attributable to assets held at december 31, 2012 assets government and agency debt securities $ 1 $ $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ corporate debt securities 4 2 (4 ) 2 non-agency mortgage and asset-backed securities 4 (4 ) 3 3 investment funds equity funds 146 (24 ) (124 ) 2 fixed income funds 20 (6 ) 14 funds of hedge funds 585 25 17 627 26 global macro funds 236 17 (258 ) 5 other investment funds 11 (11 ) private equity and debt investments 298 46 29 8 381 24 real estate investments 1,345 123 (82 ) 36 1,422 119 other investments 428 16 203 18 665 10 total assets $ 3,078 $ 205 $ (258 ) $ 3 $ 86 $ 3,114 $ 179 balance at january 1, 2011 net realized/ unrealized gains (loss) purchases, sales and settlements, net transfers into/out of level 3 foreign currency exchange rate movements balance at december 31, 2011 change in unrealized gains/(losses) attributable to assets held at december 31, 2011 assets government and agency debt securities $ 4 $ $ $ (3 ) $ $ 1 $ corporate debt securities 41 (28 ) (9 ) 4 non-agency mortgage and asset-backed securities (2 ) 6 4 investment funds equity funds 200 (32 ) 9 (29 ) (2 ) 146 (33 ) fixed income funds (5 ) 25 20 funds of hedge funds 74 (4 ) 531 (16 ) 585 (4 ) global macro funds 255 (14 ) (5 ) 236 (14 ) other investment funds 103 (94 ) 2 11 private equity and debt investments 169 28 109 (8 ) 298 28 real estate investments 1,263 203 (99 ) (22 ) 1,345 203 other investments 281 30 121 11 (15 ) 428 30 total assets $ 2,390 $ 211 $ 542 $ 1 $ (66 ) $ 3,078 $ 210 transfers in and/or out of level 3 there were no significant transfers into and/or out of level 3 within u.s. or non-u.s. plan assets during the years ended 138 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) december 31, 2012 and 2011 . investment fund strategies equity funds include funds that invest in u.s. common and preferred stocks as well as similar equity securities issued by companies incorporated, listed or domiciled in developed and/or emerging markets countries. certain fund managers may attempt to profit from security mispricing in equity markets. equity long/short managers typically construct portfolios consisting of long and short positions, which may be determined by a variety of techniques including fundamental, quantitative and technical analysis. index funds, exchange traded funds and derivatives may be used for hedging purposes to limit exposure to various risk factors. fixed income funds include investments in high quality and high yield funds as well as in credit arbitrage funds. high quality fixed income funds invest in u.s. government securities, investment-grade corporate bonds, mortgages and asset-backed securities. high yield fixed income funds invest in u.s. high yield fixed income securities issued by corporations which are rated below investment grade, are unrated but are believed by the investment manager to have similar risk characteristics or are rated investment grade or higher but are priced at yields comparable to securities rated below investment grade and believed to have similar risk characteristics. credit arbitrage funds invest in a variety of credit and credit-related instruments that allow fund managers to profit from mispricing of these credit instruments. certain derivatives may be used for hedging purposes by some fixed income fund managers to limit exposure to various risk factors. funds of hedge funds include funds that invest in a portfolio of hedge funds. funds of hedge fund managers typically seek to achieve their objectives by allocating capital across a broad array of funds and/or investment managers. global macro funds include funds that enter into leveraged transactions utilizing a variety of equity, fixed income and derivative instruments to benefit from anticipated price movements of stock, interest rates, foreign exchange currencies and physical commodities markets while minimizing downside risk. global macro managers may invest in a variety of markets to participate in expected market movements. multi-strategy funds include funds that invest in broadly diversified portfolios of equity, fixed income and derivative instruments. certain funds may also employ multiple alternative investment strategies, in combination, such as global macro, event-driven (which seeks to profit from opportunities created by significant transactional events such as spin-offs, mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcy reorganizations, recapitalizations and share buybacks) and relative value (which seeks to take advantage of pricing discrepancies between instruments including equities, debt, options and futures). other investment funds generally consist of funds that employ broad-ranging strategies and styles. the objective of such funds is to deliver returns having relatively low volatility and correlation to movements in major equity and bond markets. funds in this category employ single strategies such as event-driven or relative value. private equity and debt investments principally consists of investments in private equity and debt funds. these investments are made to gain exposure to and benefit from long-term equity investments in private companies, including leveraged buy-outs, venture capital and distressed debt strategies. real estate investments include funds that invest in entities which are principally engaged in the ownership, acquisition, development, financing, sale and/or management of income-producing real estate properties, both commercial and residential. these funds typically seek long-term growth of capital and current income that is above average relative to public equity funds. significant concentrations of risk the pension plans' assets include certain private investment funds, private equity and debt securities, real estate investments and derivative instruments. investment managers may be unable to quickly sell or redeem some or all of these investments at an amount close or equal to fair value in order to meet a plan's liquidity requirements or to respond to specific events such as deterioration in the creditworthiness of any particular issuer or counterparty. illiquid investments held by the plans are generally long-term investments that complement the long-term nature of pension obligations and are not used to fund benefit payments when currently due. plan management monitors liquidity risk on an ongoing basis and has procedures in place that are designed to maintain flexibility in addressing plan-specific, broader industry and market liquidity events. 139 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the pension plans may invest in financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies and may be exposed to risks that the foreign currency exchange rates might change in a manner that has an adverse effect on the value of the foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. forward currency contracts may be used to manage and mitigate foreign currency risk. the pension plans may invest in fixed income securities for which any change in the relevant interest rates for particular securities might result in an investment manager being unable to secure similar returns upon the maturity or the sale of securities. in addition, changes to prevailing interest rates or changes in expectations of future interest rates might result in an increase or decrease in the fair value of the securities held. interest rate swaps and other financial derivative instruments may be used to manage interest rate risk. counterparty credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to a financial instrument will default on its commitment. counterparty risk is primarily related to over-the-counter derivative instruments used to manage risk exposures related to interest rates on long-term debt securities and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. the risk of default can be influenced by various factors including macro-economic conditions, market liquidity, fiscal and monetary policies and counterparty-specific characteristics and activities. certain agreements with counterparties employ set-off, collateral support arrangements and other risk mitigating procedures designed to reduce the net exposure to credit risk in the event of counterparty default. credit policies and processes are in place to manage concentrations of counterparty risk by seeking to undertake transactions with large well-capitalized counterparties and by monitoring the creditworthiness of these counterparties. the majority of derivatives held by the plans at december 31, 2012 were fully collateralized and therefore, the related counterparty credit risk was significantly reduced. pension funding requirements we are subject to a variety of u.s. federal rules and regulations, including the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended and the pension protection act of 2006, which govern the manner in which we fund and administer our pensions for our retired employees and their spouses. in 2012 the u.s. government enacted the moving ahead for progress in the 21st century act which allows plan sponsors funding relief for pension plans through the application of higher funding interest rates. as a result, under current economic conditions, we expect no mandatory contributions to our u.s. qualified pension plans for at least five years. the new law does not impact our reported funded status. we have no funding requirements for our u.s. qualified plans in 2013. we also maintain pension plans for employees in a number of countries outside the u.s. which are subject to local laws and regulations. benefit payments the following table summarizes net benefit payments expected to be paid in the future, which include assumptions related to estimated future employee service (dollars in millions): pension benefits(a) other benefits u.s. plans non-u.s. plans u.s. plans non-u.s. plans 2013 $ 6,052 $ 1,491 $ 421 $ 63 2014 $ 5,912 $ 1,507 $ 373 $ 65 2015 $ 5,861 $ 1,546 $ 366 $ 67 2016 $ 5,674 $ 1,575 $ 360 $ 70 2017 $ 5,558 $ 1,588 $ 356 $ 72 2018 - 2022 $ 25,259 $ 8,092 $ 1,713 $ 391 __________ (a) benefits for most u.s. pension plans and certain non-u.s. pension plans are paid out of plan assets rather than our cash and cash equivalents. note 19. derivative financial instruments and risk management automotive 140 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) derivatives and hedge accounting in accordance with our risk management policy, we enter into a variety of foreign currency exchange rate and commodity derivative contracts to manage our exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 our derivative instruments consisted primarily of forward contracts and options, none of which were designated in hedging relationships. we manage our counterparty credit risk by monitoring the credit ratings of our counterparties and by requiring them to post collateral in certain circumstances. agreements are entered into with counterparties that allow the set-off of certain exposures in order to manage the risk. certain of our agreements with counterparties require that we provide cash collateral. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 no collateral was posted related to derivative instruments and we did not have any agreements with counterparties to derivative instruments containing covenants requiring the maintenance of certain credit rating levels or credit risk ratios that would require the posting of collateral in the event that such covenants are violated. fair value of derivatives the following tables summarize fair value measurements of our derivative instruments measured on a recurring basis (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 derivative assets derivative liabilities notional current(a) non-current(b) current(c) non-current(d) foreign currency $ 7,652 $ 118 $ $ 19 $ commodity 1,851 17 3 7 embedded 1,248 9 19 1 total $ 10,751 $ 144 $ 22 $ 26 $ 1 december 31, 2011 derivative assets derivative liabilities notional current(a) non-current(b) current(c) non-current(d) foreign currency $ 6,507 $ 64 $ $ 46 $ commodity 2,566 9 10 5 embedded 1,461 28 124 1 5 total $ 10,534 $ 101 $ 124 $ 57 $ 10 __________ (a) recorded in other current assets. (b) recorded in other assets. (c) recorded in accrued liabilities. (d) recorded in other liabilities and deferred income taxes. december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 level 1 level 2 level 3 total level 1 level 2 level 3 total assets foreign currency $ $ 118 $ $ 118 $ $ 64 $ $ 64 commodity 9 11 20 9 9 embedded 2 26 28 4 148 152 total $ $ 129 $ 37 $ 166 $ $ 77 $ 148 $ 225 liabilities foreign currency $ $ 19 $ $ 19 $ $ 46 $ $ 46 commodity 7 7 5 10 15 embedded 1 1 6 6 total $ $ 27 $ $ 27 $ $ 57 $ 10 $ 67 141 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) we measure the fair value of our portfolio of foreign currency, commodity and embedded derivatives using industry accepted models. the significant level 2 inputs used in the valuation of our derivatives include spot rates, forward rates, volatility and interest rates. these inputs are obtained from pricing services, broker quotes and other sources. we entered into a power plant lease agreement which included the purchase of natural gas at a fixed price adjusted for movements in heavy fuel oil and coal indices as published by a german governmental agency. the natural gas agreement was determined to be a derivative for accounting purposes and is valued as a forward contract utilizing level 3 inputs. the significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of our commodity derivative are coal and heavy fuel oil forward rates and supplier credit spreads. significant increases (decreases) in the coal and heavy fuel oil index and supplier credit spread would result in significant decreases (increases) to the fair value measurement. we are party to a long-term supply agreement which provides for pricing to be partially denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the parties to the contract. this pricing feature was determined to be an embedded derivative which we have bifurcated for valuation and accounting purposes. this embedded derivative is valued using an industry accepted model which contains level 3 inputs. the significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of our embedded foreign currency derivative is the estimate of the turkish central bank's euro/turkish lira (try) forward exchange rate and monthly volume commitment and vehicle mix. significant decreases (increases) to the euro/try forward exchange rate and monthly volume commitment and vehicle mix would result in significant decreases (increases) to the fair value measurement. the valuations are performed, reviewed and approved by personnel with appropriate expertise in valuation methodologies. for certain derivatives we compare our own valuations to valuations prepared by independent outside parties. the following table summarizes the significant quantitative unobservable inputs and assumptions used in the fair value measurement of the derivatives at december 31, 2012 : valuation technique significant unobservable input metric commodity discounted cash flow coal forward price per ton in euro(a) 93.09 heavy fuel oil forward price per ton in euro(a) 562.51 supplier nonperformance risk (average) 2.44% embedded discounted cash flow average euro/try forward exchange rate(b) 2.72 volume commitment and vehicle mix in euro(c) 909 million __________ (a) forward prices are estimated to be equivalents of the spot price as published by a governmental agency. (b) calculated by adjusting market forward rates for the spread between current market and turkish central bank spot prices. (c) volume commitment is spread evenly on a monthly basis and vehicle mix is pursuant to management forecasts. fair value measurements on a recurring basis using level 3 inputs the following table summarizes the activity for our derivative investments measured using level 3 inputs (dollars in millions): 142 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) level 3 net assets and (liabilities) year ended december 31, 2012 year ended december 31, 2011 embedded commodity total embedded commodity total balance at beginning of period $ 148 $ (10 ) $ 138 $ $ $ total realized/unrealized gains (losses)(a) included in earnings (104 ) 4 (100 ) 160 (10 ) 150 included in oci (2 ) (1 ) (3 ) (10 ) (10 ) settlements (16 ) (6 ) (22 ) (2 ) (2 ) issuances 24 24 balance at end of period $ 26 $ 11 $ 37 $ 148 $ (10 ) $ 138 amount of total gains (losses) in the period included in earnings attributable to the change in unrealized gains (losses) relating to assets still held at the reporting date $ (95 ) $ 3 $ (92 ) $ 157 $ (10 ) $ 147 __________ (a) realized and unrealized gains (losses) are recorded in interest income and other non-operating income, net and foreign currency translation gains (losses) are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. gains and (losses) on derivatives the following table summarizes derivative gains (losses) recorded in interest income and other non-operating income, net (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 foreign currency $ 70 $ (30 ) $ 82 commodity (31 ) (98 ) (25 ) embedded (102 ) 165 (8 ) warrants 4 19 total gains (losses) recorded in earnings $ (63 ) $ 41 $ 68 other derivatives in february 2011 we exercised warrants to purchase 4 million shares of a supplier's common stock at $2.76 per share and sold the shares and received proceeds of $48 million . in connection with our investment in new delphi, which we accounted for using the equity method, we recorded our share of new delphi's other comprehensive income (loss) in accumulated other comprehensive income. in the three months ended march 31, 2011 we recorded cash flow hedging gains of $13 million and in the year ended december 31, 2010 we recorded cash flow hedging losses of $22 million related to our share of new delphi's hedging gains and losses. in march 2011 we sold our interests in new delphi. as a result previously recorded cash flow hedging losses of $10 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss were reclassified to earnings and recorded in the gain on sale of new delphi. refer to note 10 for additional information on the sale of new delphi. automotive financing - gm financial gm financial is exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in interest rates due to floating interest rate exposure on its credit facilities and on certain securitization notes payable and manages this exposure with interest rate swaps and caps. gm financial had interest rate swaps and caps in asset positions with notional amounts of $775 million and $2.0 billion at december 31, 2012 and 2011. gm financial had interest rate swaps and caps in liability positions with notional amounts of $775 million and $2.0 billion at december 31, 2012 and 2011. the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. 143 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) credit risk related contingent features under the terms of the derivative financial instruments, gm financial is required to pledge certain funds to be held in restricted cash accounts as collateral for the outstanding derivative transactions. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 these restricted cash accounts totaled $4 million and $36 million and were recorded in restricted cash and marketable securities. note 20. commitments and contingencies the following tables summarize information related to commitments and contingencies (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 liability recorded maximum liability(a) liability recorded maximum liability(a) guarantees(b) operating leases $ $ 9 $ $ 26 ally financial commercial loans $ 4 $ 6 $ $ 24 third-party commercial loans and other obligations $ 70 $ 296 $ 7 $ 210 other product-related claims $ 51 $ 1,040 $ 53 $ 838 __________ (a) calculated as future undiscounted payments. (b) excludes residual support and risk sharing programs and vehicle repurchase obligations related to ally financial. december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 liability recorded liability recorded credit card programs(a) redemption liability(b) $ 209 $ 123 deferred revenue(c) $ 355 $ 345 environmental liability(d) $ 166 $ 169 product liability $ 601 $ 514 other litigation-related liability and tax administrative matters(e) $ 1,728 $ 1,196 __________ (a) at december 31, 2012 and 2011 qualified cardholders had rebates available, net of deferred program revenue, of $1.8 billion and $2.3 billion . (b) recorded in accrued liabilities. (c) recorded in other liabilities and deferred income taxes. (d) includes $33 million and $34 million recorded in accrued liabilities at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , and the remainder was recorded in other liabilities and deferred income taxes. (e) primarily indirect tax-related litigation as well as various non-u.s. labor related matters. guarantees we have provided guarantees related to the residual value of certain operating leases. these guarantees terminate in years ranging from 2016 to 2035. certain leases contain renewal options. we provide payment guarantees on commercial loans made by ally financial and outstanding with certain third-parties, such as dealers or rental car companies. these guarantees either expire in 2018 or are ongoing. we determined the fair value ascribed to the guarantees at inception and subsequent to inception to be insignificant based on the credit worthiness of the third-parties. refer to note 27 for additional information on guarantees that we provide to ally financial. we have agreements with third-parties that guarantee the fulfillment of certain suppliers' commitments and other obligations. these guarantees expire in 2013 through 2017 or are ongoing, or upon the occurrence of specific events. in some instances certain assets of the party whose debt or performance we have guaranteed may offset, to some degree, the cost of the guarantee. the offset of certain of our payables to guaranteed parties may also offset certain guarantees, if triggered. 144 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) at december 31, 2012 any proceeds we would receive from collateral would be approximately $60 million . in connection with certain divestitures of assets or operating businesses, we have entered into agreements indemnifying certain buyers and other parties with respect to environmental conditions and other closure costs pertaining to real property we owned. we periodically enter into agreements that incorporate indemnification provisions in the normal course of business. it is not possible to estimate our maximum exposure under these indemnifications or guarantees due to the conditional nature of these obligations. immaterial amounts have been recorded for such obligations as the majority of them are not probable or estimable at this time and the fair value of the guarantees at issuance was insignificant. in addition to the guarantees and indemnifying agreements previously discussed, we indemnify dealers for certain product liability related claims as subsequently discussed. with respect to other product-related claims involving products manufactured by certain joint ventures, we believe that costs incurred are adequately covered by recorded accruals. these guarantees terminate in years ranging from 2020 to 2026. credit card programs credit card programs offer rebates that can be applied primarily against the purchase or lease of our vehicles. environmental liability automotive operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws, including laws regulating air emissions, water discharges, waste management and environmental remediation. we are in various stages of investigation or remediation for sites where contamination has been alleged. we are involved in a number of actions to remediate hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. the future effect of environmental matters, including potential liabilities, is often difficult to estimate. an environmental reserve is recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. this practice is followed whether the claims are asserted or unasserted. recorded liabilities are not reduced for possible recoveries from insurance carriers or other parties. liabilities have been recorded for the expected costs to be paid over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which typically range from five to 30 years . for many sites, the remediation costs and other damages for which we ultimately may be responsible may vary because of uncertainties with respect to factors such as the connection to the site or to materials there, the involvement of other potentially responsible parties, the application of laws and other standards or regulations, site conditions and the nature and scope of investigations, studies and remediation to be undertaken (including the technologies to be required and the extent, duration and success of remediation). the final outcome of environmental matters cannot be predicted with certainty at this time. subsequent adjustments to initial estimates are recorded as necessary based upon additional information obtained. in future periods, new laws or regulations, advances in remediation technologies and additional information about the ultimate remediation methodology to be used could significantly change our estimates. it is possible that the resolution of one or more environmental matters could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. at december 31, 2012 we estimate the remediation losses could range from $130 million to $250 million . product liability with respect to product liability claims involving our and old gm's products, we believe that any judgment against us for actual damages will be adequately covered by our recorded accruals and, where applicable, excess liability insurance coverage. although punitive damages are claimed in some of these lawsuits and such claims are inherently unpredictable, accruals incorporate historic experience with these types of claims. liabilities have been recorded for the expected cost of all known product liability claims plus an estimate of the expected cost for product liability claims that have already been incurred and are expected to be filed in the future for which we are self-insured. these amounts were recorded in accrued liabilities and other liabilities and deferred income taxes. 145 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) we indemnify dealers for certain product liability related claims including products sold by old gm. we monitor actual claims experience and make periodic adjustments to our estimates. based on both management's judgment concerning the projected number and value of both dealer indemnification obligations and product liability claims, we have applied actuarial methodologies and estimated the liability. we expect our product liability reserve to rise in future periods as new claims arise from incidents subsequent to july 9, 2009. other litigation-related liability and tax administrative matters various legal actions, governmental investigations, claims and proceedings are pending against us including matters arising out of alleged product defects; employment-related matters; governmental regulations relating to safety, emissions and fuel economy; product warranties; financial services; dealer, supplier and other contractual relationships; tax-related matters not recorded pursuant to asc 740, "income taxes" (indirect tax-related matters) and environmental matters. with regard to the litigation matters discussed in the previous paragraph, reserves have been established for matters in which we believe that losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated, the majority of which are associated with indirect tax-related matters as well as various non-u.s. labor-related matters. indirect tax-related matters are being litigated globally pertaining to value added taxes, customs, duties, sales, property taxes and other non-income tax related tax exposures. the various non-u.s. labor-related matters include claims from current and former employees related to alleged unpaid wage, benefit, severance and other compensation matters. certain south american administrative proceedings are indirect tax-related and may require that we deposit funds in escrow. escrow deposits may range from $400 million to $600 million . some of the matters may involve compensatory, punitive or other treble damage claims, environmental remediation programs or sanctions that, if granted, could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that could not be reasonably estimated at december 31, 2012 . we believe that appropriate accruals have been established for such matters based on information currently available. reserves for litigation losses are recorded in accrued liabilities and other liabilities and deferred income taxes. litigation is inherently unpredictable, however, and unfavorable resolutions could occur. accordingly it is possible that an adverse outcome from such proceedings could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in any particular reporting period. gm korea wage litigation commencing on or about september 29, 2010 current and former hourly employees of gm korea filed seven separate group actions in the incheon district court in incheon, korea. the cases, which in the aggregate involve more than 10,000 employees, allege that gm korea failed to include certain allowances in its calculation of ordinary wages due under the presidential decree of the korean labor standards act. on november 23, 2012 the seoul high court (an intermediate level appellate court) issued a decision affirming a decision of the incheon district court in a case involving five gm korea employees which was contrary to gm korea's position in all of these cases. although gm korea believes the decision of the seoul high court is incorrect and intends to appeal to the supreme court of the republic of korea we have increased our accrual in the three months ended december 31, 2012 by 564 billion korean won (equivalent to $525 million ) to 746 billion korean won (equivalent to $697 million ) in connection with these cases. in the year ended december 31, 2012 we recorded 616 billion korean won (equivalent to $573 million ) in automotive cost of sales (77% of which is reflected in our net income attributable to stockholders based on our ownership interest in gm korea). we do not believe we have any reasonably possible exposure in excess of the amount of the accrual. both the scope of claims asserted and gm korea's assessment of any or all of individual claim elements may change if new information becomes available. gmcl dealers' claim on february 12, 2010 a claim was filed in the ontario superior court of justice against gmcl on behalf of a purported class of over 200 former gmcl dealers (the plaintiff dealers) which had entered into wind-down agreements with gmcl. in may 2009 in the context of the global restructuring of the business and the possibility that gmcl might be required to initiate insolvency proceedings, gmcl offered the plaintiff dealers the wind-down agreements to assist with their exit from the gmcl dealer network and to facilitate winding down their operations in an orderly fashion by december 31, 2009 or such other date as gmcl approved but no later than on october 31, 2010. the plaintiff dealers allege that the dealer sales and service agreements were wrongly terminated by gmcl and that gmcl failed to comply with certain disclosure obligations, breached its statutory duty of fair dealing and unlawfully interfered with the plaintiff dealers' statutory right to associate in an attempt to coerce the plaintiff dealers into accepting the wind-down agreements. the plaintiff dealers seek damages and assert that the wind-down agreements are rescindable. the plaintiff dealers' initial pleading makes reference to a claim not exceeding cad $750 million without 146 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) explanation of any specific measure of damages. on march 1, 2011 the court approved certification of a class for the purpose of deciding a number of specifically defined issues including: (1) whether gmcl breached its obligation of "good faith" in offering the wind-down agreements; (2) whether gmcl interfered with the plaintiff dealers' rights of free association; (3) whether gmcl was obligated to provide a disclosure statement and/or disclose more specific information regarding its restructuring plans in connection with proffering the wind-down agreements; and (4) assuming liability, whether the plaintiff dealers can recover damages in the aggregate (as opposed to proving individual damages). on june 22, 2011 the court granted gmcl permission to appeal the class certification decision. on march 26, 2012 the ontario superior court dismissed gmcl's appeal of the class certification order. accordingly the case will proceed as a class action. twenty-six dealers within the certified class definition have indicated that they will not participate. the current prospects for liability are uncertain, but because liability is not deemed probable we have no accrual relating to this litigation. we cannot estimate the range of reasonably possible loss in the event of liability as the case presents a variety of different legal theories, none of which gmcl believes are valid. uaw claim on april 6, 2010 the uaw filed suit against us in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of michigan claiming that we breached an obligation to contribute $450 million to the uaw retiree medical benefits trust (new veba). the uaw alleges that we were contractually required to make this contribution. the reasonably possible loss as defined by asc 450, contingencies is $450 million , which is the amount claimed. we believe that the claim is without merit and we have no accrual relating to this litigation. we believe the uaw's claim is barred by the 2009 uaw retiree settlement agreement approved by the u.s. bankruptcy court for the southern district of new york (bankruptcy court). we also maintain that delphi corporation's bankruptcy plan of reorganization did not fulfill the applicable conditions of the relevant agreement and therefore payment would not be due even in the absence of the 2009 uaw retiree settlement agreement. nova scotia claims litigation we are a participating party-in-interest in proceedings pending in the bankruptcy court to adjudicate claims in the old gm bankruptcy arising from certain securities issued by general motors nova scotia finance company (nova scotia finance), an old gm subsidiary which we did not acquire in 2009 (nova scotia claims litigation). although the current proceedings involve no claims against us, they present issues which, depending upon their resolution, could result in future claims against gmcl. in 2003 nova scotia finance, a nova scotia unlimited liability company, issued notes of 600 million british pounds which were guaranteed by old gm (guaranty) (collectively, the nova scotia notes). the proceeds from the nova scotia notes were converted to cad and loaned by nova scotia finance to gmcl by means of two intercompany loans totaling cad $1.3 billion . as part of the bankruptcy proceeding these intercompany loans were compromised for cad $399 million pursuant to a transaction defined by a lock-up agreement between gmcl, nova scotia finance, old gm and certain holders of the nova scotia notes (noteholders). the lock-up agreement defined a transaction by which the noteholders consented to, among other things, the compromise of the intercompany loans in exchange for payment of cad $399 million as a consent fee. the consent fee was originally financed by a loan from old gm to gmcl immediately prior to the old gm bankruptcy filing. that loan was subsequently repaid. pursuant to the terms of the lock-up agreement, the consent fee did not reduce the principal amount outstanding under the nova scotia notes or the guaranty. we acquired old gm's interest in the lock-up agreement in 2009. in the nova scotia claims litigation the noteholders seek an allowed claim in the old gm bankruptcy based on the guaranty. the trustee of nova scotia finance seeks an allowed claim in the amount of the deficiency between nova scotia finance's assets and liabilities by reason of the fact that it is an unlimited liability company and old gm was its sole shareholder. the claim asserted by the trustee includes sums allegedly owed by nova scotia finance to us by reason of currency swaps entered into between old gm and nova scotia finance which we contend we acquired from old gm in 2009. allowance of the claims is opposed by the guc trust which asserts that the claims of the trustee and noteholders are duplicative, that they should be reduced by the amount of the consent fee and/or that they should be equitably subordinated or equitably disallowed by reason of alleged inequitable conduct by the noteholders. in support of this position the guc trust has asserted that the lock-up agreement is void because it was not approved by the bankruptcy court and was funded by old gm, that we did not acquire mlc's interest in the lock-up agreements and currency swaps and that other aspects of the sale of assets to us on july 10, 2009 may be adjusted to permit disallowance or reduction of the claims of the noteholders and the trustee. the trial has commenced but the timing of any decision is uncertain. although we believe the positions taken by the guc trust are without merit, it is reasonably possible that the bankruptcy court will issue rulings adverse to our interest in the nova scotia claims litigation. such rulings could lead to subsequent claims which, 147 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) although we believe would be without merit, could adversely impact gmcl's compromise of the intercompany loans. it is impossible to estimate the reasonably possible loss which would depend upon a variety of factors including the outcome of additional litigation. however the compromise of the intercompany loans for cad $399 million resulted in a savings to gmcl of cad $935 million (equivalent to $940 million ) which we believe represents a reasonable estimate of the approximate amount of the maximum reasonably possible loss. gme planned spending guarantee as part of our opel/vauxhall restructuring plan agreed to with european labor representatives we have committed to achieving specified milestones associated with planned spending from 2011 to 2014 on certain product programs. if we fail to accomplish the requirements set out under the agreement we will be required to pay certain amounts up to euro 265 million for each of those years, and/or interest on those amounts, to our employees. certain inventory with a carrying amount of $186 million and $209 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011 was pledged as collateral under the agreement. through december 31, 2012 spending was sufficient to meet the current requirements under the agreement and the specified milestones have been accomplished. management has the intent and believes it has the ability to meet the future requirements under the agreement. asset retirement obligations asset retirement obligations relate to legal obligations associated with retirement of tangible long-lived assets that result from acquisition, construction, development or normal operation of a long-lived asset. an analysis is performed of such obligations associated with all real property owned or leased, including facilities, warehouses and offices. estimates of conditional asset retirement obligations relate, in the case of owned properties, to costs estimated to be necessary for the legally required removal or remediation of various regulated materials, primarily asbestos. asbestos abatement was estimated using site-specific surveys where available and a per square foot estimate where surveys were unavailable. for leased properties such obligations relate to the estimated cost of contractually required property restoration. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 accruals for asset retirement obligations were $116 million and $99 million . contract cancellations the following table summarizes contract cancellation charges primarily related to the cancellation of product programs (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 gmna(a) $ 64 $ 38 $ 30 gme 38 8 3 gmio 5 43 gmsa 30 4 total contract cancellations $ 137 $ 93 $ 33 __________ (a) the year ended december 31, 2010 includes favorable changes in estimate on contract cancellations of $30 million . noncancelable operating leases the following table summarizes our minimum commitments under noncancelable operating leases having initial terms in excess of one year, primarily for property (dollars in millions): 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter minimum commitments(a) $ 394 $ 312 $ 246 $ 192 $ 125 $ 595 sublease income (54 ) (53 ) (48 ) (47 ) (45 ) (279 ) net minimum commitments $ 340 $ 259 $ 198 $ 145 $ 80 $ 316 __________ (a) certain of the leases contain escalation clauses and renewal or purchase options. 148 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table summarizes our rental expense under operating leases (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 rental expense under operating leases $ 474 $ 556 $ 604 note 21. income taxes the following table summarizes income (loss) before income taxes and equity income (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 u.s. income (loss) $ (19,063 ) $ 2,883 $ 2,648 non-u.s. income (loss) (11,194 ) 3,102 3,089 income (loss) before income taxes and equity income $ (30,257 ) $ 5,985 $ 5,737 income tax expense (benefit) the following table summarizes income tax expense (benefit) (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 current income tax expense (benefit) u.s. federal $ 6 $ (134 ) $ (10 ) u.s. state and local 78 58 (1 ) non-u.s. 646 275 441 total current income tax expense 730 199 430 deferred income tax expense (benefit) u.s. federal (28,965 ) 8 (25 ) u.s. state and local (3,415 ) (28 ) 8 non-u.s. (3,181 ) (289 ) 259 total deferred income tax expense (benefit) (35,561 ) (309 ) 242 total income tax expense (benefit) $ (34,831 ) $ (110 ) $ 672 provisions are made for estimated u.s. and non-u.s. income taxes, less available tax credits and deductions, which may be incurred on the remittance of our basis differences in investments in foreign subsidiaries and corporate joint ventures not deemed to be indefinitely reinvested. taxes have not been provided on basis differences in investments in foreign subsidiaries and corporate joint ventures which are deemed indefinitely reinvested of $5.5 billion and $6.2 billion at december 31, 2012 and 2011 . quantification of the deferred tax liability, if any, associated with indefinitely reinvested basis differences is not practicable. the following table summarizes a reconciliation of income tax expense (benefit) compared with the amounts at the u.s. federal statutory rate (dollars in millions): 149 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 income tax expense (benefit) at u.s. federal statutory income tax rate $ (10,590 ) $ 2,094 $ 2,008 state and local tax expense 254 215 334 foreign income taxed at other than 35% 908 243 1,579 foreign tax credit election change (1,075 ) taxes on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries 100 (537 ) (10 ) change in valuation allowance (33,917 ) (2,386 ) (2,903 ) change in tax laws 67 (33 ) research incentives (68 ) (45 ) (235 ) gain on sale of new delphi equity interests 599 goodwill impairment 8,705 377 settlements of prior year tax matters (56 ) (170 ) veba contribution (476 ) foreign currency remeasurement (36 ) 59 143 pension contribution (127 ) u.s. salaried pension plan settlement 541 other adjustments 280 (37 ) (74 ) total income tax expense (benefit) $ (34,831 ) $ (110 ) $ 672 deferred income tax assets and liabilities deferred income tax assets and liabilities at december 31, 2012 and 2011 reflect the effect of temporary differences between amounts of assets, liabilities and equity for financial reporting purposes and the bases of such assets, liabilities and equity as measured by tax laws, as well as tax loss and tax credit carryforwards. the following table summarizes the components of temporary differences and carryforwards that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 deferred tax assets postretirement benefits other than pensions $ 3,494 $ 3,672 pension and other employee benefit plans 8,536 8,357 warranties, dealer and customer allowances, claims and discounts 4,277 4,015 property, plants and equipment 2,225 1,547 capitalized research expenditures 6,106 5,152 operating loss and tax credit carryforwards 20,220 21,199 miscellaneous u.s. 2,865 3,017 miscellaneous non-u.s. 578 243 total deferred tax assets before valuation allowances 48,301 47,202 less: valuation allowances (10,991 ) (45,191 ) total deferred tax assets 37,310 2,011 deferred tax liabilities intangible assets 724 1,933 total deferred tax liabilities 724 1,933 net deferred tax assets $ 36,586 $ 78 150 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) the following table summarizes the classification of deferred tax assets and liabilities (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 current deferred tax assets $ 9,429 $ 527 current deferred tax liabilities (162 ) (48 ) non-current deferred tax assets 27,922 512 non-current deferred tax liabilities (603 ) (913 ) net deferred tax assets $ 36,586 $ 78 the following table summarizes the amount and expiration dates of our operating loss and tax credit carryforwards at december 31, 2012 (dollars in millions): expiration dates amounts u.s. federal and state loss carryforwards 2013-2030 $ 6,642 non-u.s. loss and tax credit carryforwards indefinite 1,472 non-u.s. loss and tax credit carryforwards 2013-2031 4,961 u.s. alternative minimum tax credit indefinite 669 u.s. general business credits(a) 2017-2031 1,914 u.s. foreign tax credits 2013-2022 4,562 total operating loss and tax credit carryforwards $ 20,220 __________ (a) the general business credits are principally composed of research credits. valuation allowances the following table summarizes the change in valuation allowances related to net deferred tax assets (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 beginning balance $ 45,191 $ 42,979 $ 45,281 additions (reversals) u.s.(a) (34,263 ) 2,411 (2,196 ) canada (3,049 ) (158 ) 63 germany 1,649 1 (139 ) spain 886 463 378 south korea 138 27 (121 ) australia (498 ) (39 ) u.k. 177 141 (121 ) india 137 (123 ) other 125 (175 ) (4 ) ending balance $ 10,991 $ 45,191 $ 42,979 __________ (a) in the year ended december 31, 2012 the difference between the change in the valuation allowance and the income tax benefit associated with the valuation allowance release is due primarily to the establishment of deferred tax liabilities related to state deferred tax assets. in the year ended december 31, 2011 we recorded an adjustment to the debt cancellation income that resulted from the 363 sale. the adjustment resulted in a $2.1 billion increase in valuation allowances related to u.s. federal and state tax attributes. at december 31, 2012, as a result of sustained profitability in the u.s. and canada evidenced by three years of earnings and the completion of our near- and medium-term business plans in the three months ended december 31, 2012 that forecast continuing profitability, we determined it was more likely than not future earnings will be sufficient to realize deferred tax assets in these two 151 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) jurisdictions. accordingly we reversed most of the u.s. and canadian valuation allowances resulting in non-cash income tax benefits of $33.2 billion and $3.1 billion . we retained valuation allowances of $2.3 billion against deferred tax assets in the u.s. and canada related primarily to capital loss tax attributes and state operating loss carryforwards which we continue to believe do not meet the more likely than not threshold for releasing the valuation allowance. we retained additional valuation allowances of $8.7 billion against non-u.s. deferred tax assets, primarily related to gme and south korea business units with losses. at december 31, 2011, as a result of sustained profitability in australia, we released the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. the reduction in the valuation allowance resulted in a non-cash income tax benefit of $502 million . uncertain tax positions the following table summarizes gross unrecognized tax benefits before valuation allowances and the amount that would favorably affect the effective tax rate in future periods after valuation allowances (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 gross unrecognized tax benefits before valuation allowances $ 2,745 $ 2,370 unrecognized tax benefit that would favorably affect effective tax rate in future $ 1,210 $ 326 liability for uncertain tax positions netted against deferred tax assets in the same jurisdiction(a) $ 1,550 $ 1,285 __________ (a) the remaining uncertain tax positions are classified as current and non-current liabilities. the following table summarizes activity of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 beginning balance $ 2,370 $ 5,169 $ 5,410 additions to current year tax positions 112 129 195 additions to prior years' tax positions 512 562 803 reductions to prior years' tax positions (141 ) (1,002 ) (475 ) reductions in tax positions due to lapse of statutory limitations (34 ) (64 ) (18 ) settlements (112 ) (2,399 ) (761 ) other 38 (25 ) 15 ending balance $ 2,745 $ 2,370 $ 5,169 the following tables summarize information regarding income tax related interest and penalties (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 interest income $ 12 $ 7 $ 13 interest expense (benefit)(a) $ 52 $ (113 ) $ 20 penalties(a) $ 4 $ (25 ) $ 1 __________ (a) the interest and penalty benefit in the year ended december 31, 2011 is due primarily to remeasurements, settlements and statute expirations. december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 accrued interest payable $ 117 $ 103 accrued penalties $ 105 $ 89 other matters the ability to utilize certain of the u.s. tax attributes in future tax periods could be limited by section 382 of the internal revenue 152 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) code. on november 1, 2010 we amended our certificate of incorporation to minimize the likelihood of an ownership change occurring for section 382 purposes. we have net operating loss carryforwards in germany through november 30, 2009 that, as a result of reorganizations that took place in 2008 and 2009, were not recorded as deferred tax assets. depending on the outcome of european court decisions these loss carryforwards may be available to reduce future taxable income in germany. in australia we have net operating loss carryforwards which are subject to meeting a same business test requirement that we assess on a quarterly basis. income tax returns are filed in multiple jurisdictions and are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world. we have open tax years from 2002 to 2012 with various significant tax jurisdictions. these open years contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations as they relate to the amount, character, timing or inclusion of revenue and expenses or the sustainability of income tax credits for a given audit cycle. given the global nature of our operations there is a risk that transfer pricing disputes may arise. in the u.s. we have continuing responsibility for old gm's open tax years. old gm's federal income tax returns through the date of the 363 sale have been audited by the internal revenue service. audit closure in january 2013 of old gm's 2007, 2008 and 2009 federal income tax returns will result in no change to the amount of unrecognized tax benefits. the audit of our 2009 federal income tax return was concluded in january 2013 and will result in no change to the amount of unrecognized tax benefits. in january 2013 the u.s. congress enacted federal income tax legislation including an extension of the research credit for tax years 2012 and 2013. as a result, in the three months ending march 31, 2013, we will record an income tax benefit related to the 2012 research credit of approximately $160 million . in may 2012 a brazilian income tax assessment was issued related to the 2007 tax year totaling $181 million including tax, interest and penalties. we believe we have adequate reserves established. proceedings may require that we deposit escrow funds in the future. in march 2012 a mexican income tax audit covering the 2004 tax year was concluded and an assessment, adjusted for inflation, of $136 million including tax, interest and penalties was issued. the total 2002, 2003 and 2004 assessments, adjusted for inflation, at december 31, 2012 including tax, interest and penalties is $309 million . we believe we have adequate reserves established. payment of any assessment is suspended during the proceedings through u.s. and mexican competent authorities. in the year ended december 31, 2011 certain issues were resolved relating to uncertain tax positions in jurisdictions which had full valuation allowances. the resolution of these matters resulted in a $2.7 billion reduction to gross uncertain positions. no tax benefit was recognized with respect to these reductions because the entities were in full valuation allowance jurisdictions or the amounts were reserved in a prior period. in june 2011 we settled a brazilian income tax matter for $241 million that was reserved and disclosed in a prior period. in november 2010 an agreement was reached with the canadian government to resolve various income tax matters in the years 2003 through 2009. in the three months ended december 31, 2010 this resolution resulted in a tax benefit of $140 million including interest. at december 31, 2012 it is not possible to reasonably estimate the expected change to the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months. note 22 . restructuring and other initiatives we have previously executed various restructuring and other initiatives, and we plan to execute additional initiatives in the future, if necessary, in order to align manufacturing capacity and other costs with prevailing global automotive production and to improve the utilization of remaining facilities. to the extent these programs involve voluntary separations, no liabilities are generally recorded until offers to employees are accepted. if employees are involuntarily terminated, a liability is generally recorded at the communication date. related charges are recorded in automotive cost of sales and automotive selling, general and administrative expense. the following table summarizes the reserves related to restructuring and other initiatives (excluding restructuring reserves related to dealer wind-down agreements) and charges by segment, including postemployment benefit reserves and charges (dollars in millions): 153 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) gmna gme gmio gmsa total balance at january 1, 2010 $ 2,088 $ 451 $ 3 $ 4 $ 2,546 additions 50 734 1 2 787 interest accretion and other 36 114 150 payments (712 ) (589 ) (1 ) (7 ) (1,309 ) revisions to estimates (361 ) (8 ) 1 (368 ) effect of foreign currency 34 (38 ) (4 ) balance at december 31, 2010(a) 1,135 664 3 1,802 additions 82 344 80 506 interest accretion and other 22 105 1 128 payments (366 ) (395 ) (2 ) (68 ) (831 ) revisions to estimates 19 (9 ) 10 effect of foreign currency (8 ) (22 ) (1 ) (31 ) balance at december 31, 2011(a) 884 687 1 12 1,584 additions 129 188 84 92 493 interest accretion and other 11 66 77 payments (304 ) (344 ) (46 ) (55 ) (749 ) revisions to estimates (78 ) (17 ) (1 ) (11 ) (107 ) effect of foreign currency 11 10 1 22 balance at december 31, 2012(a) $ 653 $ 590 $ 39 $ 38 $ 1,320 __________ (a) the remaining cash payments related to these reserves for restructuring and other initiatives, including temporary layoff benefits of $356 million , $376 million and $363 million at december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 for gmna, primarily relate to postemployment benefits to be paid. year ended december 31, 2012 gmna recorded charges, interest accretion and other and revisions to estimates that increased the reserves by $62 million . the $62 million includes charges for cash severance incentive programs for skilled trade u.s. hourly employees, partially offset by increased production capacity utilization in canada. gmna recorded charges of $90 million in connection with our 2011 uaw labor agreement that included cash severance incentive programs which were completed at march 31, 2012 for skilled trade u.s. hourly employees. a total of 1,400 skilled trade u.s. hourly employees participated in these programs at a total cost of $99 million and was recorded upon irrevocable acceptances by both parties. due to the expected closure of the oshawa consolidated plant in june 2014, impacted employees will be eligible for a voluntary restructuring separation incentive program in accordance with the existing collective bargaining agreement that provides cash and a car voucher. this may range up to $70 million and will be included in our restructuring liability, net of existing liabilities, upon irrevocable acceptance by both parties. gme recorded charges, interest accretion and other of $254 million for previously announced separation and early retirement programs. through december 31, 2012 the active separation programs related to germany and the united kingdom had a total cost of $400 million and had affected a total of 2,550 employees, of which $310 million related to a program initiated in germany in 2010. this program was essentially completed in 2012. we expect to complete the active programs in 2013 and incur an additional $200 million , which will affect an additional 700 employees. gmio recorded charges, interest accretion and other related to voluntary separation programs primarily in korea and australia. through december 31, 2012 these programs had a total cost of $69 million which affected 650 employees. we expect to complete the programs in gmio in 2013 and incur up to an additional $40 million , which will affect up to an additional 200 employees. 154 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) gmsa recorded charges of $87 million for employee separation costs related to a separation program in brazil. year ended december 31, 2011 gmna recorded charges, interest accretion and other and revisions to estimates primarily related to special attrition programs for skilled trade u.s. hourly employees, service cost for hourly layoff benefits and canadian restructuring activities. gme recorded charges, interest accretion and other for separation programs primarily related to previously announced programs in germany. restructuring and early retirement programs in spain, the u.k. and belgium were essentially completed in 2010 and we also initiated a program in germany in 2010. through december 31, 2011 these programs had a total cost of $1.1 billion and affected a total of 6,700 employees and included the december 2010 closure of the antwerp, belgium facility. gmsa recorded charges, interest accretion and other for separation programs primarily related to the voluntary separation program in brazil implemented in the three months ended december 31, 2011. a total of 900 employees in brazil participated in the separation program at a total cost of $74 million . year ended december 31, 2010 gmna recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates primarily related to increased production capacity utilization, which resulted in the recall of idled employees to fill added shifts at multiple u.s. production sites and revisions to productivity initiatives, partially offset by canadian restructuring activities. gme recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates for separation programs primarily related to the following initiatives: separation charges of $527 million related to the closure of the antwerp, belgium facility which affected 2,600 employees. separation charges of $63 million related to separation/layoff plans and an early retirement plan in spain which ultimately affected 1,200 employees. separation charges of $31 million related to a voluntary separation program in the united kingdom. separation charges of $95 million and interest accretion and other of $104 million related to a voluntary separation program in germany. dealer wind-downs we market vehicles worldwide through a network of independent retail dealers and distributors. we determined that a reduction in the number of gmna dealerships was necessary. the following table summarizes gmna's restructuring reserves related to dealer wind-down agreements (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 balance at beginning of period $ 25 $ 144 $ 501 additions and revisions to estimates (5 ) (8 ) 7 payments (7 ) (111 ) (366 ) effect of foreign currency 2 balance at end of period $ 13 $ 25 $ 144 note 23. interest income and other non-operating income, net the following table summarizes the components of interest income and other non-operating income, net (dollars in millions): 155 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 interest income $ 343 $ 455 $ 465 net gains (losses) on derivatives (63 ) 41 68 rental income 158 149 164 dividends and royalties 98 153 213 other(a) 309 53 621 total interest income and other non-operating income, net $ 845 $ 851 $ 1,531 __________ (a) amounts in the year ended december 31, 2012 include impairment charges related to the investment in psa of $220 million , income related to various insurance recoveries of $168 million , a charge of $119 million in connection with the entry into an agreement to sell the gms business, resulting in a reduction in the carrying value to estimated fair value, and recognition of deferred income from technology agreements with sgmw of $114 million . amounts in the year ended december 31, 2011 include impairment charges related to the investment in ally financial of $555 million , a gain on the sale of ally financial preferred shares of $339 million , and recognition of deferred income from technology agreements with sgmw of $113 million . amounts in the year ended december 31, 2010 include a gain on the reversal of an accrual for contingently issuable shares of our common stock to mlc (adjustment shares) of $162 million , a gain on the sale of saab of $123 million , a gain on the acquisition of gms of $66 million and a gain on the sale of nexteer of $60 million . note 24. stockholders' equity and noncontrolling interests preferred stock the following table summarizes significant features relating to our preferred stock (dollars in millions, except for per share amounts): liquidation preference per share dividend rate per annum dividends paid years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 series a preferred stock $ 25.00 9.00 % $ 621 $ 621 $ 810 series b preferred stock $ 50.00 4.75 % $ 238 $ 243 $ series a preferred stock the series a preferred stock ranks senior with respect to liquidation preference and dividend rights to our common stock and series b preferred stock and any other class or series of stock that we may issue. in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our affairs, a holder of series a preferred stock will be entitled to be paid, before any distribution or payment may be made to any holders of common stock or series b preferred stock, the liquidation amount and the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends, if any, whether or not declared, prior to such distribution or payment date. on or after december 31, 2014 , the series a preferred stock may be redeemed, in whole or in part, for cash at a price per share equal to the $25.00 per share liquidation amount, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. upon a redemption or purchase of any or all series a preferred stock, the difference, if any, between the recorded amount of the series a preferred stock being redeemed or purchased and the consideration paid would be recorded as a charge to net income attributable to common stockholders. if all of the series a preferred stock were to be redeemed or purchased at its par value, the amount of the charge would be $1.4 billion . in december 2010 we purchased 84 million shares of series a preferred stock, held by the ust, at a price equal to 102% of the aggregate liquidation amount, for $2.1 billion . the purchase of the ust's series a preferred stock resulted in a charge of $677 million recorded in cash dividends paid on series a preferred stock and cumulative dividends on series b preferred stock and charge related to purchase of series a preferred stock. series b preferred stock the series b preferred stock, with respect to dividend rights and rights upon our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution, ranks: (1) senior to our common stock and to each other class of capital stock or series of preferred stock the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series ranks senior to, or on a parity with, the series b preferred stock; (2) on a parity with 156 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) any class of capital stock or series of preferred stock the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series will rank on a parity with the series b preferred stock; and (3) junior to our series a preferred stock and to each class of capital stock or series of preferred stock the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior to the series b preferred stock. each share of the series b preferred stock, unless previously converted, will automatically convert on december 1, 2013 into shares of our common stock. the number of shares of our common stock issuable upon mandatory conversion of each share of series b preferred stock is determined based on the applicable market value of our common stock subject to anti-dilution adjustments and accumulated and unpaid dividends. the applicable market value of our common stock is the average of the closing prices of our common stock over the 40 consecutive trading day period ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the mandatory conversion date. holders of the series b preferred stock have the right to convert their shares at any time prior to the mandatory conversion date at a conversion ratio of 1.2626 shares of our common stock for each share of the series b preferred stock that is optionally converted, subject to anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments. if the applicable market value of our common stock upon mandatory conversion falls within a range of $33.00-$39.60 per common share, the holder receives a variable number of shares of our common stock with a value equal to the liquidation preference plus accumulated dividends. if the applicable market value is not within this range, there is a fixed conversion ratio equaling 1.2626 shares of common stock for each share of series b preferred stock when the applicable market value of our common stock is greater than $39.60 , and 1.5152 shares of common stock for each share of series b preferred stock when the applicable market value of our common stock is less than $33.00 . the fixed conversion ratios will be adjusted for events that would otherwise dilute a series b preferred stockholder's interest. in the three months ended december 31, 2012, holders of our series b preferred stock converted 11,204 shares into 14,145 shares of common stock. common stock holders of our common stock are entitled to dividends at the sole discretion of our board of directors. however, the terms of the series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock prohibit, subject to exceptions, the payment of dividends on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends on the series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock are paid in full. holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters submitted to our stockholders for a vote. the liquidation rights of holders of our common stock are secondary to the payment or provision for payment of all our debts and liabilities and to holders of our series a preferred stock and series b preferred stock, if any such shares are then outstanding. in the year ended december 31, 2011 we issued 61 million shares of common stock to the u.s. hourly and salaried pension plans, 3,500,000 shares for exercised warrants and 500,000 shares for the settlement of salary and other restricted stock awards. in december 2012 we purchased 200 million shares of our common stock from the ust at a price of $27.50 per share for a total of $5.5 billion . the purchase price represented a premium to the prior day's closing price of $25.49 . we allocated the purchase price between a direct reduction to shareholder's equity of $5.1 billion and a charge to earnings of $402 million representing the premium. this premium was recorded in other automotive expenses, net. these shares were retired by the board and returned to authorized but unissued status. in the year ended december 31, 2012 we issued 1,300,000 shares of common stock for the settlement of restricted stock and salary stock awards and 400,000 shares for exercised warrants. the ust agreed to irrevocably waive certain of its rights under the stockholders agreement by and among us and certain other stockholders and covenants under the ust credit agreement as part of this agreement. these rights and covenants included, among other items, a reduction in certain reporting requirements and a release from the vitality commitment, which contained certain manufacturing volume requirements. warrants in connection with the 363 sale we issued two tranches of warrants, each to acquire 136 million shares of common stock, to mlc which have all been distributed to creditors of old gm and to the guc trust by mlc and one tranche of warrants to acquire 46 million shares of common stock to the new veba. the first tranche of mlc warrants is exercisable at any time prior to july 10, 2016 at an exercise price of $10.00 per share and the second tranche of mlc warrants is exercisable at any time prior to july 10, 2019 at an exercise price of $18.33 per share. the new veba warrants are exercisable at any time prior to december 31, 2015 at an exercise price of $42.31 per share. upon exercise of the warrants, the shares issued will be included in the number of 157 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) basic shares outstanding used in the computation of earnings per share. the number of shares of common stock underlying each of the warrants and the per share exercise price are subject to adjustment as a result of certain events, including stock splits, reverse stock splits and stock dividends. the outstanding balance of warrants at december 31, 2012 and 2011 was 313 million . accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) the following table summarizes the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes (dollars in millions): foreign currency translation adjustments cash flow hedging gains (losses), net unrealized gains (losses) on securities, net defined benefit plans, net accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) balance december 31, 2009 $ 157 $ (1 ) $ 2 $ 1,430 $ 1,588 other comprehensive income (loss) 210 (22 ) (7 ) (545 ) (364 ) sale of businesses 14 14 other comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interests 13 13 balance december 31, 2010 394 (23 ) (5 ) 885 1,251 other comprehensive income (loss) (183 ) 25 1 (6,958 ) (7,115 ) purchase of noncontrolling interest shares (6 ) (1 ) (7 ) other comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interests 10 10 balance december 31, 2011 215 2 (4 ) (6,074 ) (5,861 ) other comprehensive loss before reclassification adjustment (103 ) (162 ) (2,212 ) (2,477 ) reclassification adjustment(a) (2 ) 207 92 297 other comprehensive income (loss) (103 ) (2 ) 45 (2,120 ) (2,180 ) other comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests (11 ) (11 ) balance december 31, 2012 $ 101 $ $ 41 $ (8,194 ) $ (8,052 ) __________ (a) primarily an impairment charge related to our investment in psa. other comprehensive income (loss) the following tables summarize the components of other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common stockholders (dollars in millions): 158 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 pre-tax amount tax expense (benefit) net amount pre-tax amount tax expense(benefit) net amount pre-tax amount tax expense (benefit) net amount foreign currency translation adjustments $ (103 ) $ $ (103 ) $ (183 ) $ $ (183 ) $ 210 $ $ 210 cash flow hedging gain (loss), net (2 ) (2 ) 25 25 (22 ) (22 ) unrealized gain (loss) on securities, net unrealized gain (loss) on securities (140 ) 22 (162 ) 1 1 (7 ) (7 ) reclassification adjustments 202 (5 ) 207 unrealized gain (loss) on securities, net 62 17 45 1 1 (7 ) (7 ) defined benefit plans, net prior serv i ce benefit (cost) from plan amendments (53 ) (95 ) 42 302 1 301 7 1 6 less: amortization of prior service cost included in net periodic benefit cost (125 ) (5 ) (120 ) (52 ) (52 ) (12 ) (12 ) net prior service benefit (cost) (178 ) (100 ) (78 ) 250 1 249 (5 ) 1 (6 ) actuarial gain (loss) from plan measurements (3,180 ) (926 ) (2,254 ) (7,578 ) (10 ) (7,568 ) (530 ) 34 (564 ) less: amortization of actuarial loss included in net periodic benefit cost(a) 229 17 212 366 5 361 25 25 net actuarial amounts (2,951 ) (909 ) (2,042 ) (7,212 ) (5 ) (7,207 ) (505 ) 34 (539 ) defined benefit plans, net (3,129 ) (1,009 ) (2,120 ) (6,962 ) (4 ) (6,958 ) (510 ) 35 (545 ) other comprehensive income (loss) (3,172 ) (992 ) (2,180 ) (7,119 ) (4 ) (7,115 ) (329 ) 35 (364 ) less: other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 11 11 (10 ) (10 ) (13 ) (13 ) other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ (3,183 ) $ (992 ) $ (2,191 ) $ (7,109 ) $ (4 ) $ (7,105 ) $ (316 ) $ 35 $ (351 ) __________ (a) includes the hct settlement. refer to note 18 . note 25. earnings per share in the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 we were required to use the two-class method for calculating earnings per share, as further discussed below, as the applicable market value of our common stock was below $33.00 per common share in the periods ended december 31, 2012 and 2011. basic and diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net income attributable to common stockholders by the weighted-average common shares outstanding in the period. diluted earnings per share is computed by giving effect to all potentially dilutive securities that were outstanding. the following table summarizes basic and diluted earnings per share (in millions, except for per share amounts): 159 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 basic earnings per share net income attributable to stockholders $ 6,188 $ 9,190 $ 6,172 less: cumulative dividends on and charge related to purchase of preferred stock and undistributed earnings allocated to series b preferred stock participating security(a)(b) 1,329 1,605 1,504 net income attributable to common stockholders $ 4,859 $ 7,585 $ 4,668 weighted-average common shares outstanding - basic 1,566 1,536 1,500 basic earnings per share $ 3.10 $ 4.94 $ 3.11 diluted earnings per share net income attributable to stockholders $ 6,188 $ 9,190 $ 6,172 add: preferred dividends to holders of series b preferred stock 25 less: cumulative dividends on and charge related to purchase of preferred stock and undistributed earnings allocated to series b preferred stock participating security(a)(c) 1,301 1,552 1,504 net income attributable to common stockholders $ 4,887 $ 7,638 $ 4,693 weighted-average common shares outstanding - diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding - basic 1,566 1,536 1,500 dilutive effect of warrants 104 130 106 dilutive effect of conversion of series b preferred stock 17 dilutive effect of rsus 5 2 1 weighted-average common shares outstanding - diluted 1,675 1,668 1,624 diluted earnings per share $ 2.92 $ 4.58 $ 2.89 __________ (a) includes earned but undeclared dividends of $26 million , $26 million and $26 million on our series a preferred stock and $20 million , $20 million and $25 million on our series b preferred stock in the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. (b) includes cumulative dividends on preferred stock of $859 million and earnings of $470 million that have been allocated to the series b preferred stock holders in the year ended december 31, 2012; includes cumulative dividends on preferred stock of $859 million and earnings of $746 million that have been allocated to the series b preferred stock holders in the year ended december 31, 2011; and cumulative dividends on preferred stock of $827 million and a charge related to the purchase of series a preferred stock of $677 million in the year ended december 31, 2010. (c) includes cumulative dividends on preferred stock of $859 million and earnings of $442 million that have been allocated to the series b preferred stock holders in the year ended december 31, 2012; includes cumulative dividends on preferred stock of $859 million and earnings of $693 million that have been allocated to the series b preferred stock holders in the year ended december 31, 2011; and cumulative dividends on preferred stock of $827 million and a charge related to the purchase of series a preferred stock of $677 million in the year ended december 31, 2010. years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 holders of the series b preferred stock have a right to participate in our undistributed earnings because a dividend, if declared, would result in a transfer of value to the holder through an adjustment to the fixed conversion ratios through various anti-dilution provisions. based on the nature of the series b preferred stock and the nature of these anti-dilution provisions, we have concluded that the series b preferred stock is a participating security and, as such, the application of the two-class method for computing earnings per share is required when the applicable market value of our common stock is below $33.00 or above $39.60 per share. for purposes of calculating earnings per share, the applicable market value is calculated as the average of the closing prices of our common stock over the 40 consecutive trading day period ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the date of our financial statements. the calculation of the applicable market value at the date of our financial statements will apply to the full year, irrespective of the applicable market value computed during the prior quarters of the current year. we applied the two-class method to calculate basic earnings per share and the more dilutive of the two-class or the if-converted method to calculate diluted earnings per share in the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011. under the two-class method for 160 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) computing earnings per share, undistributed earnings are allocated to common stock and the series b preferred stock according to their respective participation rights in undistributed earnings, as if all the earnings for the period had been distributed. this allocation to the series b preferred stock holders reduced net income attributable to common stockholders, resulting in a lower basic and dilutive earnings per share amount. variability may result in our calculation of earnings per share from period to period depending on whether the application of the two-class method is required. the application of the two-class method resulted in an allocation of undistributed earnings to our series b preferred stock holders and, accordingly, 152 million common stock equivalents from the assumed conversion of the series b preferred stock are not considered outstanding for purposes of determining the weighted-average common shares outstanding in the computation of diluted earnings per share in the years december 31, 2012 and 2011. mlc distributed all of its 272 million warrants for our common stock to its unsecured creditors and the guc trust. the warrant holders may exercise the warrants at any time prior to their respective expiration dates. upon exercise of the warrants the shares issued will be included in the number of basic shares outstanding used in the computation of earnings per share. warrants to purchase 313 million shares of our common stock were outstanding at december 31, 2012 and 2011, of which 46 million shares were not included in each year's computation of diluted earnings per share because the warrants' exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common shares. under the treasury stock method, the assumed exercise of the remaining warrants resulted in 104 million and 130 million dilutive shares in the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011. diluted earnings per share included the effect of 15 million and 13 million unvested rsus granted to certain global executives in the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011. in july 2011 the 61 million shares of common stock contributed to our pension plans in january 2011 met the criteria to qualify as plan assets for accounting purposes. these shares were considered outstanding for earnings per share purposes beginning in july 2011. year ended december 31, 2010 warrants to purchase 318 million shares of our common stock were outstanding, of which 46 million shares were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the warrants' exercise price was greater than the average market price of our common stock. under the treasury stock method, the assumed exercise of warrants to purchase the remaining warrants resulted in 106 million dilutive shares. diluted earnings per share included the effect of 11 million unvested rsus granted to certain global executives. the dilutive effect of the rsus was included only for the period subsequent to our public offering as the rsus prior were accounted for as liability awards prior to that date. note 26. stock incentive plans our stock incentive plans consist of the 2009 long-term incentive plan and the salary stock plan. both plans are administered by the executive compensation committee of our board of directors. the aggregate number of shares with respect to which awards may be granted under these amended plans shall not exceed 75 million . long-term incentive plan we granted 7 million , 5 million and 15 million rsus in the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 . these awards granted either cliff vest or ratably vest generally over a three-year service period, as defined in the terms of each award. our policy is to issue new shares upon settlement of rsus. the 2012 awards granted to the top 25 highest compensated employees will settle on the second and third anniversary dates of grant in 25% increments consistent with the terms of the 2009 long-term incentive plan. the awards for the non-top 25 highest compensated employees will vest and settle on the second and third anniversary dates of grant. vesting and subsequent settlement will generally occur based upon employment at the end of each specified service period. the 2011 awards granted to the top 25 highest compensated employees will settle three years from the grant date in 25% 161 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) increments consistent with the terms of the 2009 long-term incentive plan. the awards for the next 75 highest compensated employees will settle either: (1) three years from the date of grant; or (2) on the first and third anniversary dates of grant. the awards to the non-top 100 highest compensated employees will settle on the first, second and third anniversary dates of grant. vesting and subsequent settlement will generally occur based upon employment at the end of each specified service period. the 2010 awards granted to the top 25 highest compensated employees will settle three years from the grant date in 25% increments consistent with the terms of the 2009 long-term incentive plan. the awards for the non-top 25 highest compensated employees will settle after three years. retirement eligible participants that are non-top 25 highest compensated employees who retire during the service period will retain and vest in a pro-rata portion of rsus earned. the vested award will be payable on the settlement date. salary stock plan in the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 a portion of each participant's salary was accrued on each salary payment date and converted to rsus on a quarterly basis. in march 2012 we amended the plan to provide for cash settlement of awards instead of issuing new shares. as a result we will now settle these awards in cash and we reclassified $97 million from capital surplus to accrued liabilities and other liabilities and deferred income taxes. rsus the following table summarizes information about the rsus under our stock incentive plans (rsus in millions): shares weighted-average grant date fair value weighted-average remaining contractual term rsus outstanding at december 31, 2011 22.5 $ 23.01 1.1 granted 9.1 $ 25.10 settled (3.2 ) $ 27.71 forfeited or expired (1.5 ) $ 24.42 rsus outstanding at december 31, 2012 26.9 $ 23.06 0.7 rsus unvested and expected to vest at december 31, 2012 16.2 $ 23.49 1.0 rsus vested and payable at december 31, 2012 10.3 $ 22.27 rsus granted in the year ended december 31, 2011 $ 31.18 rsus granted in the year ended december 31, 2010 $ 19.17 the following table summarizes compensation expense recorded for our stock incentive plans (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 compensation expense $ 302 $ 233 $ 235 income tax benefit $ 100 $ $ at december 31, 2012 the total unrecognized compensation expense for nonvested equity awards granted was $185 million . this expense is expected to be recorded over a weighted-average period of one year . the total fair value of rsus vested in the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was $141 million , $105 million and $78 million . in the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 total payments for 1.6 million , 456,000 and 292,000 rsus settled under stock incentive plans were $36 million , $14 million and $5 million . note 27. ally financial 162 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) automotive the following tables summarize the financial statement effects of and maximum obligations under agreements with ally financial (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 vehicle repurchase obligations maximum obligations(a) $ 22,112 $ 18,972 fair value of guarantee $ 15 $ 17 __________ (a) we corrected the amount originally reported as $19.8 billion in our annual report on form 10-k as of december 31, 2011. years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 u.s. marketing incentives and operating lease residual payments $ 1,732 $ 1,428 $ 1,111 exclusivity fee income $ 63 $ 76 $ 99 marketing incentives and operating lease residuals under an interest rate support program, we pay an amount at the time of lease or retail contract origination to adjust the interest rate in the retail contract or implicit in the lease below ally financial's standard interest rate. the amount paid at contract origination represents the present value of the difference between the customer's contractual rate and ally financial's standard rate for a given program. under a residual support program, a customer's contract residual value is adjusted above ally financial's standard residual value. we reimburse ally financial to the extent sales proceeds are less than the customer's contract residual value, limited to ally financial's standard residual value. the residual support amount owed is calculated at contract termination and, in cases where the amount differs from the expected amount paid at contract origination, the difference is paid to or paid by ally financial. under a risk-sharing arrangement, residual losses are shared equally with ally financial to the extent remarketing proceeds are below ally financial's standard residual value (limited to a floor). under a capitalized cost reduction program, we pay an amount at the time of lease or retail contract origination to reduce the principal amount implicit in the lease or retail contract below the standard manufacturers' suggested retail price. under a lease pull-ahead program, a customer is encouraged to terminate their lease early and buy or lease a new gm vehicle. ally financial waives the customer's remaining payment obligation under their current lease and ally financial is compensated for any foregone revenue from the waived payments. since these programs generally accelerate the resale of the vehicle, the proceeds are typically higher than if the vehicle had been sold at contract maturity. the reimbursement to ally financial for the foregone payments is reduced by the amount of this benefit. exclusivity arrangements we have entered into exclusivity agreements with ally financial whereby: (1) for a two-year period, retail financing incentive programs can be offered through a third-party financing source under certain specified circumstances, and after such two-year period beginning in january 2011 through december 2013 any such incentive programs can be offered on a graduated basis through third-parties on a non-exclusive basis, or if ally financial matches the rates offered by such third-party on a side-by-side basis with ally financial; (2) ally financial has no obligation to provide financing; and (3) ally financial has no targets against which it could be assessed penalties. after december 31, 2013 we will no longer have any restrictions or limitations on our ability to offer retail financing incentive programs through any third-party financing source as a result of agreements with ally financial. contractual exposure limit we have an agreement with ally financial that limits certain unsecured obligations arising from service agreements to ally 163 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) financial to $1.5 billion and limits the sum of maximum unsecured exposure and maximum secured exposure to the greater of $3.0 billion or 15% of ally financial's capital from and after december 30, 2010. vehicle repurchase obligations our agreement with ally financial requires the repurchase of ally financial financed inventory invoiced to dealers with limited exclusions, in the event of a qualifying voluntary or involuntary termination of the dealer's sales and service agreement. the repurchase obligation ended in august 2010 for vehicles invoiced through august 2009, ended in august 2011 for vehicles invoiced through august 2010, ended in august 2012 for vehicles invoiced through august 2011, ends in august 2013 for vehicles invoiced through august 2012 and ends in august 2014 for vehicles invoiced through august 2013. the maximum potential amount of future payments required to be made to ally financial under this guarantee is based on the repurchase value of total eligible vehicles financed by ally financial in dealer stock. if vehicles are required to be repurchased under this arrangement, the total exposure would be reduced to the extent vehicles are able to be resold to another dealer. the fair value of the guarantee, which considers the likelihood of dealers terminating and estimated loss exposure for ultimate disposition of vehicles, was recorded as a reduction of revenue. balance sheet the following table summarizes the balance sheet effects of transactions with ally financial (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 assets accounts and notes receivable, net(a) $ 222 $ 243 liabilities accounts payable(b) $ 47 $ 59 short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt(c) $ 863 $ 1,068 accrued liabilities and other liabilities(d) $ 878 $ 650 long-term debt(e) $ 6 $ 8 other non-current liabilities(f) $ 19 $ 35 __________ (a) represents wholesale settlements due from ally financial and receivables for exclusivity fees and royalties. (b) represents amounts billed to us and payable related to incentive programs. (c) represents wholesale financing, sales of receivable transactions and the short-term portion of term loans provided to certain dealerships which we own or in which we have an equity interest. (d) includes accruals for marketing incentives on vehicles which are sold, or anticipated to be sold, to customers or dealers and financed by ally financial. this includes the estimated amount of residual and rate support accrued, capitalized cost reduction incentives and amounts owed under lease pull-ahead programs. (e) represents the long-term portion of term loans from ally financial to certain consolidated dealerships. (f) represents long-term portion of liabilities for marketing incentives on vehicles financed by ally financial. statement of operations the following table summarizes the income statement effects of transactions with ally financial (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 total net sales and revenue (decrease)(a) $ (2,368 ) $ (1,468 ) $ (1,383 ) interest income and other non-operating income, net(b) $ 87 $ 126 $ 228 automotive interest expense(c) $ 38 $ 63 $ 243 __________ (a) represents marketing incentives on vehicles which were sold, or anticipated to be sold, to customers or dealers and financed by ally financial. this includes the estimated amount of residual and rate support accrued, capitalized cost reduction incentives and costs under risk sharing and lease pull-ahead programs. this amount is offset by net sales for vehicles sold to ally financial for employee and 164 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) governmental lease programs and third-party resale purposes. (b) represents income on investments in ally financial preferred stock (through march 31, 2011), exclusivity and royalty fee income. included in this amount is rental income related to ally financial's primary executive and administrative offices located in the renaissance center in detroit, michigan. the lease agreement expires in november 2016. (c) represents interest incurred on notes payable and wholesale settlements. ally financial common and preferred stock in december 2010 the ust agreed to convert 110 million shares of preferred securities into 532,000 shares of common stock. this resulted in the dilution of our investment in ally financial common stock from 16.6% to 9.9% , of which 4.0% was held directly and 5.9% was held indirectly through an independent trust. in may 2011 we transferred the 4.0% of shares we owned directly to the independent trust. in december 2011 in response to a letter from the trustee requesting that the life of the trust be extended, the federal reserve agreed to extend the trust from december 2011 to december 2013. pursuant to previous commitments to reduce influence over and ownership in ally financial, the trustee, who is independent of us, has the sole authority to vote and is required to dispose of all ally financial common stock held in the trust by december 24, 2013. we can cause the trustee to return any ally financial common stock to us to hold directly, so long as our directly held voting and total common equity interests remain below 10.0% . at december 31, 2012 and 2011 our equity ownership in ally financial was 9.9% . fair value of ally financial common stock we estimated the fair value of ally financial common stock using a market approach that applies the average price to tangible book value multiples of comparable companies to the consolidated ally financial tangible book value. the significant inputs used in our fair value analyses included ally financial's december 31, 2012 and 2011 financial statements, financial statements and price to tangible book value multiples of comparable companies in the banking and finance industry, and the effects of certain ally financial shareholder rights. the measurement of ally financial common stock is a level 3 fair value measurement. at december 31, 2011 we determined the carrying amount of our investment in ally financial common stock exceeded our estimate of its fair value. our estimate of fair value resulted from broader macroeconomic uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets including the eurozone debt crisis, continued heightened risk of recession and concerns about ally financial's mortgage related operations. our estimate considered the potential effect of contractual provisions held by the ust who may receive incremental ownership interest in ally financial depending upon ally financial's equity value at the time of a successful public offering or private sale. these contractual provisions could result in significant dilution of our ownership interest. based on an evaluation of the duration and severity of this decline in fair value, we concluded the impairment was other-than-temporary. as a result we recorded an impairment charge of $555 million in interest income and other non-operating income, net to reduce our investment to its estimated fair value of $403 million . the following table summarizes the carrying amount and estimated fair value of ally financial common stock (dollars in millions): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 common stock carrying amount $ 399 $ 403 fair value $ 1,268 $ 403 ally financial preferred stock in march 2011 our investment in ally financial preferred stock was sold through a public offering for net proceeds of $1.0 billion . the gain of $339 million related to the sale was recorded in interest income and other non-operating income, net. note 28. supplementary quarterly financial information (unaudited) the following tables summarize supplementary quarterly financial information (dollars in millions, except per share amounts): 165 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) 1st quarter 2nd quarter 3rd quarter 4th quarter 2012 total net sales and revenue $ 37,759 $ 37,614 $ 37,576 $ 39,307 automotive gross margin $ 4,418 $ 4,449 $ 4,327 $ (3,135 ) net income $ 1,350 $ 1,901 $ 1,854 $ 1,031 net income attributable to stockholders $ 1,315 $ 1,846 $ 1,833 $ 1,194 earnings per share, basic $ 0.64 $ 0.95 $ 0.94 $ 0.58 earnings per share, diluted $ 0.60 $ 0.90 $ 0.89 $ 0.54 1st quarter 2nd quarter 3rd quarter 4th quarter 2011 total net sales and revenue $ 36,194 $ 39,373 $ 36,719 $ 37,990 automotive gross margin $ 4,214 $ 5,250 $ 4,594 $ 4,422 net income $ 3,411 $ 3,037 $ 2,092 $ 747 net income attributable to stockholders $ 3,366 $ 2,992 $ 2,107 $ 725 earnings per share, basic $ 2.09 $ 1.68 $ 1.10 $ 0.30 earnings per share, diluted $ 1.77 $ 1.54 $ 1.03 $ 0.28 starting in the three months ended june 30, 2011 we used the two-class method for calculating earnings per share because series b preferred stock was a participating security. net income for the three months ended december 31, 2012 included: deferred tax asset valuation allowance release of $36.3 billion in the u.s. and canada. goodwill impairment charges of $26.5 billion in gmna and gmio. property, plant and equipment impairment charges of $3.7 billion in gme. pension settlement charge of $2.6 billion in gmna. intangible asset impairment charges of $1.8 billion in gme. charge of $525 million for gm korea hourly wage litigation. charge of $402 million which represents the premium paid to purchase our common stock from the ust in corporate. net income for the three months ended september 30, 2012 included: goodwill impairment charges of $78 million in gmio. net income for the three months ended march 31, 2012 included: goodwill impairment charges of $617 million in gmio and gme. net income the three months ended december 31, 2011 included: goodwill impairment charge of $891 million in gmio and gme. settlement gain of $749 million related to termination of caw hourly retiree healthcare benefits in gmna. impairment charge of $555 million related to ally financial common stock in corporate. reversal of deferred income tax valuation allowances of $502 million in australia. net income for the three months ended march 31, 2011 included: 166 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) gain of $1.6 billion related to the sale of our class a membership interests in new delphi in gmna. goodwill impairment charge of $395 million in gme. gain of $339 million related to the sale of 100% of our investment in the ally financial preferred stock in corporate. note 29. segment reporting we analyze the results of our business through our five segments: gmna, gme, gmio, gmsa and gm financial. each segment has a manager responsible for executing our strategies. our automotive manufacturing operations are integrated within the segments, benefit from broad-based trade agreements and are subject to regulatory requirements, such as corporate average fuel economy regulations. while not all vehicles within a segment are individually profitable on a fully loaded cost basis, those vehicles are needed in our product mix in order to attract customers to dealer showrooms and to maintain sales volumes for other, more profitable vehicles. because of these factors, we do not manage our business on an individual brand or vehicle basis. the chief operating decision maker evaluates the operating results and performance of our automotive segments through income (loss) before interest and income taxes, as adjusted for additional amounts, which are presented net of noncontrolling interests, and evaluates gm financial through income before income taxes. substantially all of the cars, trucks and parts produced are marketed through retail dealers in north america, and through distributors and dealers outside of north america, the substantial majority of which are independently owned. in addition to the products sold to dealers for consumer retail sales, cars and trucks are also sold to fleet customers, including daily rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing companies and governments. sales to fleet customers are completed through the network of dealers and in some cases sold directly to fleet customers. retail and fleet customers can obtain a wide range of aftersale vehicle services and products through the dealer network, such as maintenance, light repairs, collision repairs, vehicle accessories and extended service warranties. gmna primarily meets the demands of customers in north america with vehicles developed, manufactured and/or marketed under the following four brands: buick cadillac chevrolet gmc the demands of customers outside of north america are primarily met with vehicles developed, manufactured and/or marketed under the following brands: buick chevrolet holden vauxhall cadillac gmc opel at december 31, 2012 we also had equity ownership stakes directly or indirectly in entities through various regional subsidiaries, including gm korea, sgm, sgms, sgmw, faw-gm and hkjv. these companies design, manufacture and market vehicles under the following brands: alpheon buick chevrolet wuling baojun cadillac jiefang nonsegment operations are classified as corporate. corporate includes an investment in ally financial, certain centrally recorded income and costs, such as interest, income taxes and corporate expenditures and certain nonsegment specific revenues and expenses. in 2012 we recorded losses on extinguishment of debt within corporate for segment reporting purposes. previously gains and losses on extinguishment of debt were recorded within the applicable automotive segments. this change is consistent with how management currently views the results of our operations. all intersegment balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. the following tables summarize key financial information by segment (dollars in millions): 167 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) at and for the year ended december 31, 2012 gmna gme gmio gmsa corporate eliminations total automotive gm financial eliminations total sales external customers $ 89,912 $ 20,689 $ 22,954 $ 16,700 $ 40 $ $ 150,295 $ $ $ 150,295 gm financial revenue 1,961 1,961 intersegment 4,683 1,361 4,736 250 (11,032 ) (2 ) 2 total net sales and revenue $ 94,595 $ 22,050 $ 27,690 $ 16,950 $ 40 $ (11,032 ) $ 150,293 $ 1,961 $ 2 $ 152,256 income (loss) before automotive interest and income taxes-adjusted $ 6,953 $ (1,797 ) $ 2,191 $ 271 $ (395 ) $ (107 ) $ 7,116 $ 744 $ (1 ) $ 7,859 adjustments(a) $ (29,052 ) $ (6,391 ) $ (288 ) $ 27 (402 ) $ $ (36,106 ) $ (36,106 ) corporate interest income 343 343 automotive interest expense 489 489 loss on extinguishment of debt 250 250 income (loss) before income taxes (1,193 ) 744 (28,643 ) income tax expense (benefit) (35,007 ) 177 $ (1 ) (34,831 ) net income attributable to stockholders $ 33,814 $ 567 $ 6,188 equity in net assets of nonconsolidated affiliates $ 65 $ 51 $ 6,764 $ 3 $ $ $ 6,883 $ $ $ 6,883 total assets $ 87,181 $ 9,781 $ 25,092 $ 12,070 $ 16,991 $ (17,371 ) $ 133,744 $ 16,368 $ (690 ) $ 149,422 expenditures for property $ 4,766 $ 1,035 $ 1,225 $ 956 $ 77 $ (4 ) $ 8,055 $ 13 $ $ 8,068 depreciation, amortization and impairment of long-lived assets and finite-lived intangible assets $ 3,663 $ 6,570 $ 638 $ 483 $ 49 $ (1 ) $ 11,402 $ 225 $ (10 ) $ 11,617 equity income, net of tax and gain on investments $ 9 $ $ 1,552 $ 1 $ $ $ 1,562 $ $ $ 1,562 significant non-cash charges (benefits) not classified as adjustments in (a) impairment charges related to long-lived assets $ 50 $ $ 28 $ 2 $ $ $ 80 $ $ $ 80 impairment charges related to equipment on operating leases 40 141 181 181 valuation allowances against deferred tax assets(b) (36,261 ) (36,261 ) (103 ) (36,364 ) total significant non-cash charges (benefits) $ 90 $ 141 $ 28 $ 2 $ (36,261 ) $ $ (36,000 ) $ (103 ) $ $ (36,103 ) __________ (a) consists of goodwill impairment charges of $26.4 billion , pension settlement charges of $2.7 billion and income related to various insurance recoveries of $9 million in gmna; property impairment charges of $3.7 billion , intangible assets impairment charges of $1.8 billion , goodwill impairment charges of $590 million , impairment charges related to investment in psa of $220 million , a charge of $119 million to record gms assets and liabilities to estimated fair value and income related to various insurance recoveries of $7 million in gme; gm korea hourly wage litigation charge of $336 million , goodwill impairment charges of $132 million , which are presented net of noncontrolling interests, income related to various insurance recoveries of $112 million and income related to redemption of the gm korea mandatorily redeemable preferred shares of $68 million in gmio; income related to various insurance recoveries of $27 million in gmsa; and a charge of $402 million which represents the premium paid to purchase our common stock from the ust in corporate. (b) includes valuation allowance releases of $36.5 billion net of the establishment of new valuation allowances of $0.1 billion . amounts exclude changes related to income tax expense (benefits) in jurisdictions with a full valuation allowance throughout the period. 168 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) at and for the year ended december 31, 2011 gmna gme gmio gmsa corporate eliminations total automotive gm financial eliminations total sales external customers $ 85,988 $ 25,154 $ 21,031 $ 16,632 $ 61 $ $ 148,866 $ $ $ 148,866 gm financial revenue 1,410 1,410 intersegment 4,245 1,603 3,730 245 (9,820 ) 3 (3 ) total net sales and revenue $ 90,233 $ 26,757 $ 24,761 $ 16,877 $ 61 $ (9,820 ) $ 148,869 $ 1,410 $ (3 ) $ 150,276 income (loss) before automotive interest and income taxes-adjusted $ 7,194 $ (747 ) $ 1,897 $ (122 ) $ (447 ) $ (93 ) $ 7,682 $ 622 $ $ 8,304 adjustments(a) $ 2,394 $ (1,016 ) $ (364 ) $ 63 (216 ) $ $ 861 $ 861 corporate interest income 455 455 automotive interest expense 540 540 income (loss) before income taxes (748 ) 622 9,080 income tax expense (benefit) (295 ) 185 (110 ) net income (loss) attributable to stockholders $ (453 ) $ 437 $ 9,190 equity in net assets of nonconsolidated affiliates $ 60 $ 50 $ 6,678 $ 2 $ $ $ 6,790 $ $ $ 6,790 total assets $ 83,595 $ 15,799 $ 22,181 $ 11,631 $ 30,244 $ (31,590 ) $ 131,860 $ 13,112 $ (369 ) $ 144,603 expenditures for property $ 3,404 $ 1,016 $ 907 $ 880 $ 44 $ (10 ) $ 6,241 $ 8 $ $ 6,249 depreciation, amortization and impairment of long-lived assets and finite-lived intangible assets $ 3,693 $ 1,371 $ 491 $ 454 $ 50 $ (1 ) $ 6,058 $ 85 $ (2 ) $ 6,141 equity income, net of tax and gain on investments(b) $ 1,733 $ $ 1,458 $ 1 $ $ $ 3,192 $ $ $ 3,192 significant noncash charges (gains) not classified as adjustments in (a) impairment charges related to long-lived assets $ 74 $ $ 4 $ 3 $ $ $ 81 $ $ $ 81 impairment charges related to equipment on operating leases 75 76 151 151 reversal of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets(c) (488 ) (488 ) (488 ) total significant noncash charges (gains) $ 149 $ 76 $ 4 $ 3 $ (488 ) $ $ (256 ) $ $ $ (256 ) __________ (a) consists of the gain on sale of our new delphi class a membership interests of $1.6 billion and the gain related to the hct settlement of $749 million in gmna; goodwill impairment charges of $1.0 billion in gme; goodwill impairment charges of $258 million and charges related to hkjv of $106 million in gmio; a gain on extinguishment of debt of $63 million in gmsa; and impairment charges of $555 million related to ally financial common stock and a gain on the sale of ally financial preferred stock of $339 million in corporate. (b) includes a gain of $ 1.6 billion recorded on the sale of our new delphi class a membership interests. refer to note 10 for additional information on the sale of new delphi. (c) amounts exclude changes related to income tax expense (benefits) in jurisdictions with a full valuation allowance throughout the period. 169 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) for the year ended december 31, 2010 gmna gme gmio gmsa corporate eliminations total automotive gm financial eliminations total sales external customers $ 79,514 $ 22,868 $ 17,730 $ 15,065 $ 134 $ $ 135,311 $ $ $ 135,311 gm financial revenue 281 281 intersegment 3,521 1,208 2,831 314 (7,874 ) total net sales and revenue $ 83,035 $ 24,076 $ 20,561 $ 15,379 $ 134 $ (7,874 ) $ 135,311 $ 281 $ $ 135,592 income (loss) before automotive interest and income taxes-adjusted $ 5,688 $ (1,953 ) $ 2,262 $ 818 $ 191 $ (105 ) $ 6,901 $ 129 $ $ 7,030 adjustments(a) $ 60 $ 189 $ $ 198 $ $ 447 $ 447 corporate interest income 465 465 automotive interest expense 1,098 1,098 income (loss) before income taxes (244 ) 129 6,844 income tax expense 633 39 672 net income (loss) attributable to stockholders $ (877 ) $ 90 $ 6,172 expenditures for property $ 2,380 $ 634 $ 729 $ 411 $ 46 $ $ 4,200 $ 2 $ $ 4,202 depreciation, amortization and impairment of long-lived assets and finite-lived intangible assets $ 4,434 $ 1,476 $ 349 $ 496 $ 168 $ $ 6,923 $ 7 $ $ 6,930 equity income, net of tax and gain on investments $ 120 $ 11 $ 1,307 $ (2 ) $ 2 $ $ 1,438 $ $ $ 1,438 significant noncash charges (gains) not classified as adjustments in(a) net contingent adjustment shares(b) $ $ $ $ $ (162 ) $ $ (162 ) $ $ $ (162 ) reversal of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets(c) (63 ) (63 ) $ (63 ) impairment charges related to long-lived assets 234 6 240 $ 240 impairment charges related to equipment on operating leases 49 49 $ 49 total significant noncash charges (gains) $ 234 $ 49 $ 6 $ $ (225 ) $ $ 64 $ $ $ 64 __________ (a) consists of a gain on the sale of nexteer of $60 million in gmna, a gain on the sale of saab of $123 million , a gain on acquisition of gms of $66 million in gme and a gain on the extinguishment of the veba notes of $198 million in corporate. (b) gain on the reversal of an accrual for adjustment shares due to the conclusion that it was no longer probable that unsecured claims of mlc would reach the levels as defined by the amended and restated master sale and purchase agreement. (c) amounts exclude changes related to income tax expense (benefits) in jurisdictions with a full valuation allowance throughout the period. automotive revenue is attributed to geographic areas based on the country in which the product is sold, except for revenue from certain joint ventures and non-wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries. in such case, the revenue is attributed based on the geographic location of the joint venture or non-wholly owned consolidated subsidiary. automotive financing revenue is attributed to the geographic area where the financing is originated. the following table summarizes information concerning principal geographic areas (dollars in millions): 170 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) at and for the years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 net sales &amp; revenue long-lived assets net sales &amp; revenue long-lived assets net sales &amp; revenue long-lived assets north america u.s. $ 85,105 $ 13,520 $ 79,868 $ 11,736 $ 72,736 $ 10,351 canada and mexico 9,558 3,861 10,153 3,227 10,195 2,773 gm financial u.s. 1,832 1,112 1,363 532 279 46 canada 129 590 47 300 2 1 europe france 1,551 30 2,343 73 1,820 63 germany 4,610 308 5,975 2,348 5,004 1,852 italy 1,412 24 2,429 55 2,509 176 russia 1,990 165 1,668 124 964 132 spain 962 84 1,263 464 1,398 665 united kingdom 4,875 518 4,899 815 5,253 761 other european countries 5,311 327 6,616 851 5,941 632 asia korea 8,907 2,280 9,087 1,874 7,301 1,519 thailand 2,157 680 911 582 561 341 other asian countries 816 670 496 147 482 74 south america argentina 1,741 146 1,723 164 1,215 183 brazil 9,407 2,229 9,635 2,077 9,513 1,425 colombia 1,527 190 1,799 117 1,438 104 venezuela 1,846 56 1,472 48 1,130 47 other south american countries 2,179 99 2,002 79 1,782 62 other geographic locations australia 3,554 607 3,887 516 3,623 492 south africa 1,294 110 1,398 109 1,104 99 all other geographic locations 1,493 41 1,242 39 1,342 52 total consolidated $ 152,256 $ 27,647 $ 150,276 $ 26,277 $ 135,592 $ 21,850 the following table summarizes the aggregation of principal geographic information by u.s. and non-u.s. (dollars in millions): at and for the years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 net sales &amp; revenue long-lived assets net sales &amp; revenue long-lived assets net sales &amp; revenue long-lived assets u.s. $ 86,937 $ 14,632 $ 81,231 $ 12,268 $ 73,015 $ 10,397 non-u.s. 65,319 13,015 69,045 14,009 62,577 11,453 total u.s. and non-u.s. $ 152,256 $ 27,647 $ 150,276 $ 26,277 $ 135,592 $ 21,850 note 30. supplemental information for the consolidated statements of cash flows the following table summarizes the sources (uses) of cash provided by change in other operating assets and liabilities and cash paid for income taxes and interest (dollars in millions): 171 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 accounts receivable $ (460 ) $ (1,572 ) $ (641 ) prepaid expenses and other deferred charges (255 ) (165 ) 304 inventories (326 ) (2,760 ) (2,229 ) accounts payable 162 2,139 2,257 income taxes payable 155 (360 ) 54 accrued liabilities and other liabilities 1,041 (727 ) (83 ) automotive equipment on operating leases 370 (522 ) (628 ) total $ 687 $ (3,967 ) $ (966 ) cash paid for income taxes and interest cash paid for income taxes $ 575 $ 569 $ 357 cash paid for interest - automotive $ 452 $ 317 $ 1,001 cash paid for interest - gm financial 298 284 66 total cash paid for interest $ 750 $ 601 $ 1,067 significant non-cash activity investing cash flows the following table summarizes the amounts of non-cash property additions that were excluded from expenditures for property within the investing activities section of the consolidated statement of cash flows because no cash was expended (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 non-cash property additions $ 3,879 $ 3,689 $ 2,290 financing cash flows the following table summarizes the amounts relating to non-cash financing activities that were excluded from the financing activities section of the consolidated statements of cash flows because no cash was expended (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 contribution of common stock to u.s. hourly and salaried pension plans $ $ 1,864 $ notes issued to settle caw hourly retiree healthcare plan $ $ 1,122 $ refer to note 18 for additional information on the common stock contributed to our pension plans. * * * * * * * 172 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements (continued) item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure none * * * * * * * item 9a. controls and procedures disclosure controls and procedures we maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the specified time periods and accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. our management, with the participation of our chairman and ceo and senior vice president and cfo, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) promulgated under the exchange act) at december 31, 2012 . based on these evaluations, our ceo and cfo concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures required by paragraph (b) of rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 were effective as of december 31, 2012 . management's report on internal control over financial reporting our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting as defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the exchange act. this system is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with u.s. gaap. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. our management performed an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at december 31, 2012 , utilizing the criteria discussed in the internal control - integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the objective of this assessment was to determine whether our internal control over financial reporting was effective at december 31, 2012 . based on management's assessment, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at december 31, 2012 . the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting has been audited by deloitte &amp; touche llp, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included herein. changes in internal controls there have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended december 31, 2012 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. /s/ daniel f. akerson /s/ daniel ammann daniel f. akerson chairman and chief executive officer daniel ammann senior vice president and chief financial officer february 15, 2013 february 15, 2013 * * * * * * * 173 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries item 9b. other information none * * * * * * * 174 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance we have adopted a code of ethics that applies to the corporation's directors, officers, and employees, including the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, controller and chief accounting officer and any other persons performing similar functions. the text of our code of ethics, winning with integrity, has been posted on our website at http://investor.gm.com at investors - corporate governance. we will provide a copy of the code of ethics without charge upon request to corporate secretary, general motors company, mail code 482-c25-a36, 300 renaissance center, p.o. box 300, detroit, mi 48265-3000. * * * * * * * items 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 information required by part iii (items 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14) of this form 10-k is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, which will be filed with the securities and exchange commission, pursuant to regulation 14a, not later than 120 days after the end of the 2012 fiscal year, all of which information is hereby incorporated by reference in, and made part of, this form 10-k, except the information required by item 10 with respect to our code of ethics in item 10 above and disclosure of our executive officers, which is included in item 1 of part i of this report. * * * * * * * 175 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries part iv item 15. exhibits (a) 1. all financial statements and supplemental information 2. financial statement schedules all financial statement schedules are omitted as the required information is inapplicable or the information is presented in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto inrisk factors 17 risk factors we face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. while we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. our business is highly dependent on sales volume. there is no assurance that the global automobile market will not suffer a significant downturn. our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume. a number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, levels of unemployment, the availability of credit, fluctuations in the cost of fuel and consumer confidence. we cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty and any change in economic and market conditions that negatively affects sales volumes could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term is dependent upon our ability to introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers. our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term depends on our ability to entice consumers to consider our products when purchasing a new vehicle. the automotive industry, particularly in the u.s., is very competitive with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models designed to meet consumer expectations, and in the past our competitors have been very successful in persuading customers that previously purchased our products to purchase their vehicles instead. producing new and improved vehicle models on a basis competitive with the models introduced by our competitors and changing any negative perception, in light of old gm's bankruptcy, will be critical to our long-term profitability. we will launch a substantial number of new vehicles in 2014. a successful launch of our new vehicles is critical to our short term profitability. the pace of our development and introduction of new and improved vehicles depends on our ability to implement successfully improved technological innovations in design, engineering and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by our suppliers. there can be no assurance that our competitors and others pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. if we are unable to achieve these goals, we may not be able to maintain profitability over the long-term. shortages of and volatility in the price of oil have caused and may have a material adverse effect on our business due to shifts in consumer vehicle demand. volatile oil prices in recent years have tended to cause a shift in consumer demand towards smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins. any increases in the price of oil in the u.s. or in our other markets or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of political instability in the middle east, south america and african nations, could weaken the demand for our higher margin fullsize pick-up trucks and sport utility vehicles, which could reduce our market share in affected markets, decrease profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations. we are continuing to implement a number of cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives in our automotive operations, including labor modifications and substantial restructuring initiatives. our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these initiatives throughout our automotive operations. while some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our costs. reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase. our automotive manufacturing operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to provide us with systems, components and parts and any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule and adversely affect our operations. our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our use of just-in-time manufacturing processes results in our having minimal inventories of the systems, components and parts we need to conduct our automotive manufacturing operations. as a result our ability to maintain production is dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of systems, components and parts at such times as allow us to meet our production schedules. in some instances we purchase systems, components, parts and supplies from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. where we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules or suspend production entirely and thus could adversely affect our financial results. increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of raw materials could materially harm our business. we use various raw materials in our business including steel, non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and copper, and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. the prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. in recent years freight charges and raw material costs increased. substantial increases in the prices for our raw materials increase our operating costs and could reduce our profitability if we cannot recoup the increased costs through increased vehicle prices. some of these raw materials, such as corrosion-resistant steel, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. an increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, which may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as labor strikes, could negatively affect our net revenues and profitability to a material extent. we operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. the global automotive industry is highly competitive and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by attempting to sell more vehicles by adding vehicle enhancements, providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering option package discounts or other marketing incentives, or reducing vehicle prices in certain markets. manufacturers in lower cost countries such as china and india have emerged as competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention of exporting their products to established markets as a bargain alternative to entry-level automobiles. these actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results, and present a significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle. our competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by industry consolidation or alliances. designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery, research and development, product design, engineering, technology and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and regulatory requirements. large original equipment manufacturers are able to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging their investments and activities on a global basis across brands and nameplates. if our competitors consolidate or enter into other strategic agreements such as alliances, they may be able to take better advantage of these economies of scale. we believe that competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by consolidation or alliances, which could adversely affect 18 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our competitiveness with respect to those competitors. competitors could use consolidation or alliances as a means of enhancing their competitiveness or liquidity position, which could also materially adversely affect our business. our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various european countries, but we may not succeed in doing so, and our failure to restructure these operations in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in 2013 the european automotive industry continued to be severely affected by the ongoing sovereign debt crisis, high unemployment and a lack of consumer confidence coupled with overcapacity. in response we are executing various actions to strengthen our european operations and increase our competitiveness. the key areas of the plan include: investments in our product portfolio; a revised brand strategy; significant management changes; reducing material, development and production costs; and leveraging synergies from the alliance between us and peugeot s.a. (psa). notwithstanding the above we believe it is likely that adverse economic conditions and their effect on the european automotive industry will not improve significantly in the short-term and we expect to continue to incur losses in the region as a result. in addition the success of our plan will depend on a combination of our ability to execute the actions contemplated, as well as external factors, which are outside of our control. our inability to successfully restructure our european operations and implement our plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates and investments that do not achieve adequate returns. our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. a detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is disclosed in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. there are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market capacity to absorb a particular investment strategy or high volume transactions and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. our future funding requirement for our u.s. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the internal revenue service depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, as other factors are held constant. our potential funding requirements are described in management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations -- contractual obligations and other long-term liabilities. factors which affect future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-u.s. plans. certain plans outside the u.s. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our pension plans outside the u.s., we could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow. we rely on gm financial to provide financial services to our dealers and customers in a majority of the markets in which we sell vehicles. gm financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing, prime and sub-prime financing to consumers and commercial lending to our dealers to support additional sales of our vehicles. in north america gm financial supports additional consumer leasing of our vehicles and additional sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring sub-prime vehicle financing as well as providing commercial lending to our dealers. in europe and south america we rely on gm financial to support additional consumer leasing of our vehicles and additional sales of our vehicles to 19 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries prime consumers as well as providing commercial lending to our dealers . gm financial is subject to various risks that could negatively affect its business, operations and access to capital and therefore its ability to provide leasing, prime and sub-prime financing options at competitive rates to consumers of our vehicles and commercial lending to our dealers. because we rely on gm financial to serve as an additional source of leasing, prime and sub-prime financing options for consumers and commercial lending to our dealers, any impairment of gm financial's ability to provide such financial services would negatively affect our efforts to expand our market penetration among consumers who rely on these financial services to acquire new vehicles and dealers who seek financing. the factors that could adversely affect gm financial's business and operations and impair its ability to provide financing services at competitive rates include: the ability to close the acquisition of gmac-saic and integrate the acquired ally financial international operations into its business successfully; the availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to fund its consumer and dealer finance activities pending securitization; its ability to transfer finance receivables and leases to securitization trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds to repay its credit facilities and fund additional finance receivables and leases; the performance of loans and leases in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; wholesale auction values of used vehicles; higher than expected vehicle return rates and the residual value performance on vehicles gm financial leases; and fluctuations in interest rates and currencies. the above factors, alone or in combination, could negatively affect gm financial's business and operations or its ability to provide leasing, prime and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles and dealer financing. our planned investment in new technology in the future is significant and may not be funded at anticipated levels and, even if funded at anticipated levels, may not result in successful vehicle applications. we intend to invest significant capital resources to support our products and to develop new technology. in addition we plan to invest heavily in alternative fuel and advanced propulsion technologies between 2014 and 2015, largely to support our planned expansion of hybrid and electric vehicles. moreover if our future operations do not provide us with the cash flow we anticipate, we may be forced to reduce, delay or cancel our planned investments in new technology. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. there can be no assurance that these advances will occur in a timely or feasible way, that the funds that we have budgeted for these purposes will be adequate or that we will be able to establish our right to these technologies. however our competitors and others are pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies and there can be no assurance that they will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology networks and systems could interfere with our operations and could compromise the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including supply chain management, manufacturing, invoicing and collection of payments from our dealer network and from customers of gm financial. additionally we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, the propriety business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. the secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information, is critical to our business operations and strategy. despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to our 20 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries networks and systems, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to significant security attacks or disruptions resulting from such attacks. new laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations regarding increased fuel economy requirements and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant effect on how we do business. we are affected significantly by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. we anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product lineup, will increase significantly in the future. in the u.s. and europe, for example, governmental regulation is driven primarily by concerns about the environment (including greenhouse gas emissions), vehicle safety, fuel economy and energy security. these government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and may result in substantial costs, including civil penalties. they may also result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. in the u.s. vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions are regulated under a harmonized national program administered by the nhtsa and the epa. the agencies have set coordinated fuel economy and greenhouse emission standards through the 2025 model year for light duty vehicles and through the 2018 model year for heavy duty trucks. california, which has set its own greenhouse gas emission standards through its ab 1493 rules, has agreed to accept compliance with the national program as compliance with its state program. we are committed to meeting or exceeding these u.s. regulatory requirements, and our product plan of record projects compliance with the anticipated national program through the 2021 model year. the standards for the 2022 through 2025 model years may be adjusted as a result of a mid-term review by the agencies. therefore we believe it is premature to project compliance with possible standards for those years. we expect that to comply with these standards we will be required to sell a significant volume of hybrid electric vehicles, as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. there is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis, or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. the eu passed legislation, effective in april 2009, that began regulating vehicle co 2 emissions in 2012. the legislation sets a target of a fleet average of 95 grams per kilometer for 2020, with the requirements for each manufacturer based on the weight of the vehicles it sells. additional measures have been proposed or adopted in europe to regulate features such as tire rolling resistance, vehicle air conditioners, tire pressure monitors, gear shift indicators and others. at the national level 17 eu member states have adopted some form of fuel consumption or carbon dioxide-based vehicle taxation system, which could result in specific market requirements for us to introduce technology earlier than is required for compliance with the eu emissions standards. other governments around the world, such as canada, china, brazil, mexico and south korea are also creating or have new policies to address these same issues. as in the u.s. these government policies could significantly affect our plans for product development. due to these regulations we could be subject to sizable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. the regulations will result in substantial costs, which could be difficult to pass through to our customers, and could result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which could affect our operations, including facility closings, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue. a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. many of our operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried out by joint ventures such as sgm. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures we are required to foster our relationships with our co-owners as well as promote the overall success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes or relationships deteriorate, our success in the joint venture may be materially adversely affected. the benefits 21 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. our business in china is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions. maintaining a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the automotive market in china is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. as the size of the chinese market continues to increase, we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. in addition our business in china is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in china. if we are unable to maintain our position in the chinese market or if vehicle sales in china decrease or do not continue to increase, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we could be materially adversely affected by changes or imbalances in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. given the nature of the automotive industry and global spread of our business, we have significant exposures to risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, which can have material adverse effects on our business. in preparing the consolidated financial statements we translate our revenues and expenses outside the u.s. into u.s. dollars using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the period and the assets and liabilities using the foreign currency exchange rate at the balance sheet date. as a result foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our businesses outside the u.s. expose us to additional risks that may materially adversely affect our business. the majority of our vehicles are sold outside the u.s. we are pursuing growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the u.s. operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including: economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as china; economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including imposing restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the u.s. and china; foreign regulations restricting our ability to sell our products in those countries; differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety; liabilities resulting from u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to the foreign corrupt practices act and certain other anti-corruption laws; differing labor regulations and union relationships; consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and political and economic instability, natural calamities, war and terrorism. the effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business. new laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations regarding safety standards, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant negative effect on how we do business. our products must satisfy legal safety requirements. meeting or exceeding government-mandated safety standards is difficult and costly because crashworthiness standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. while we are managing our product development and production operations on a global basis to 22 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries reduce costs and lead times, unique national or regional standards or vehicle rating programs can result in additional costs for product development, testing and manufacturing. governments often require the implementation of new requirements during the middle of a product cycle, which can be substantially more expensive than accommodating these requirements during the design of a new product. the costs and effect on our reputation of product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. from time to time we recall our products to address performance, compliance or safety-related issues. the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. in addition product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. any costs incurred or lost sales caused by future product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. conversely not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above. * * * * * * * quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk automotive we enter into a variety of foreign currency exchange and commodity forward contracts and options to manage exposures arising from market risks resulting from changes in certain foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. the overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the risk management committee which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. the risk management committee comprises members of our management and functions under the oversight of the audit committee, a committee of the board of directors. the audit committee assists and guides the board of directors in its oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. a risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the risk management committee. our risk management policy intends to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures. the following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. the models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates and interest rate yield curves. for options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect of market shifts. there are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, due primarily to the assumption that interest rates change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. in addition the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency pairs or offsetting long-short positions in currency pairs which may significantly reduce the potential loss in value. foreign currency exchange rate risk we have foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of the operations. at december 31, 2013 our most significant foreign currency exposures were the euro/british pound, u.s. dollar/korean won, euro/korean won and euro/u.s. dollar. derivative instruments such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2013 such contracts had remaining maturities of up to 23 months. at december 31, 2013 and 2012 the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $1.0 billion and $4.0 billion . this presentation utilizes a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives, embedded derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and excludes the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be $195 million and $671 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012 . we are exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial condition. the following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement losses (dollars in millions): 59 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries years ended december 31, 2013 2012 foreign currency translation losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 729 $ 118 losses resulting from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements recorded in earnings $ 352 $ 117 interest rate risk we are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial instruments, primarily debt, capital lease obligations and certain marketable securities. at december 31, 2013 we did not have any interest rate swap positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations. at december 31, 2013 and 2012 the fair value liability of debt and capital leases was $6.8 billion and $5.3 billion . the potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would be $251 million and $112 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012 . at december 31, 2013 and 2012 we had marketable securities of $7.2 billion and $3.8 billion classified as available-for sale and $1.7 billion and $5.2 billion classified as trading. the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would be insignificant at december 31, 2013 and 2012 . automotive financing - gm financial fluctuations in market interest rates can affect gm financial's secured and unsecured debt. gm financial's gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between: (1) interest earned on finance receivables, other income and lease contracts; and (2) interest paid, is affected by changes in interest rates as a result of gm financial's dependence upon the issuance of variable rate securities and the incurrence of variable rate debt to fund purchases of finance receivables and leased vehicles. credit facilities fixed interest rate receivables purchased by gm financial are pledged to secure borrowings under its credit facilities. amounts borrowed under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to protect the interest rate spread within each credit facility, gm financial is contractually required to enter into interest rate cap agreements in connection with borrowings under its credit facilities. securitizations in gm financial's securitization transactions it can transfer fixed rate finance receivables to securitization trusts that, in turn, sell either fixed rate or floating rate securities to investors. derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps and caps, are used to manage the gross interest rate spread on the floating rate transactions. gm financial had interest rate swaps and caps in asset positions with notional amounts of $3.8 billion and $0.8 billion at december 31, 2013 and 2012 . gm financial had interest rate swaps and caps in liability positions with notional amounts of $5.5 billion and $0.8 billion at december 31, 2013 and 2012 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. foreign currency exchange rate risk gm financial is exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations, primarily those acquired from ally financial at various dates in 2013, into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect gm financial's financial condition. in connection with the closing of certain acquisitions of ally financial's international operations, gm financial provided loans denominated in foreign currencies (euro, british pound and swedish krona) to acquired entities that had an equivalent balance of $1.7 billion at december 31, 2013. gm financial purchased foreign exchange swaps to offset any valuation change in the loans due to changes in foreign exchange rates. the fair value of these foreign exchange swaps was insignificant. the following table summarizes gm financial's interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, excluding derivatives, by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2013 (dollars in millions): 60 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries years ending december 31, december 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter fair value assets consumer finance receivables principal amounts $ 9,576 $ 6,642 $ 4,162 $ 2,050 $ 820 $ 290 $ 22,652 weighted-average annual percentage rate 10.76 % 10.97 % 11.17 % 11.73 % 12.28 % 12.80 % commercial finance receivables principal amounts $ 5,731 $ 22 $ 25 $ 94 $ 117 $ 6 $ 6,016 weighted-average annual percentage rate 6.82 % 4.73 % 4.59 % 4.50 % 7.40 % 5.69 % liabilities credit facilities principal amounts $ 6,297 $ 1,699 $ 796 $ 224 $ 19 $ $ 8,995 weighted-average interest rate 4.95 % 6.39 % 6.39 % 8.17 % 8.34 % % securitization notes principal amounts $ 5,218 $ 4,084 $ 2,321 $ 1,114 $ 348 $ $ 13,175 weighted-average interest rate 1.91 % 2.12 % 2.40 % 2.71 % 2.88 % % senior notes principal amounts $ $ $ 1,000 $ 1,000 $ 1,250 $ 750 $ 4,106 weighted-average interest rate % % 2.75 % 4.75 % 4.65 % 4.25 % the following table summarizes gm financial's interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, excluding derivatives, by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2012 (dollars in millions): years ended and ending december 31, december 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter fair value assets consumer finance receivables principal amounts $ 4,108 $ 2,860 $ 1,895 $ 1,209 $ 673 $ 315 $ 10,759 weighted-average annual percentage rate 14.54 % 14.39 % 14.25 % 14.10 % 13.95 % 13.84 % commercial finance receivables principal amounts $ 507 $ 6 $ 3 $ 3 $ 35 $ 6 $ 554 weighted-average annual percentage rate 3.78 % 3.80 % 3.76 % 3.78 % 3.47 % 4.53 % liabilities credit facilities principal amounts $ 354 $ $ $ $ $ $ 354 weighted-average interest rate 0.64 % % % % % % securitization notes principal amounts $ 3,406 $ 2,324 $ 1,772 $ 1,073 $ 438 $ $ 9,171 weighted-average interest rate 2.33 % 2.70 % 3.03 % 3.05 % 2.99 % % senior notes principal amounts $ $ $ $ $ 1,000 $ 500 $ 1,620 weighted-average interest rate % % % % 4.75 % 6.75 % gm financial estimates the realization of finance receivables in future periods using discount rate, prepayment and credit loss assumptions similar to its historical experience. credit facilities and securitization notes payable amounts have been classified based on expected payoff. senior notes and convertible senior notes principal amounts have been classified based on maturity. * * * * * * * 61 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2013, based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (1992) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2013, based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (1992) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended december 31, 2013 of the company and our report dated february 6, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph related to the company's adoption of a revised accounting standard related to comprehensive income. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 6, 2014 62 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2013. these financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of general motors company and subsidiaries at december 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2013, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the company adopted amendments in accounting standards update (asu) 2013-02 to accounting standards codification (asc) topic 220, comprehensive income , effective january 1, 2013. as discussed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, the company adopted amendments in asu 2010-28 to asc topic 350, intangibles-goodwill and other , effective january 1, 2011. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2013, based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (1992) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission and our report dated february 6, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 6, 2014 63 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors we face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. while we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. our business is highly dependent on the global automobile market sales volume, which can be volatile. our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume. a number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, levels of unemployment, the availability of credit, fluctuations in the cost of fuel, consumer confidence and global economic conditions. we cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty. our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term is dependent upon our ability to introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers. the automotive industry, particularly in the u.s., is very competitive with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models designed to meet consumer expectations, and in the past our competitors have been very successful in persuading customers that previously purchased our products to purchase their vehicles instead. producing new and improved vehicle models on a basis competitive with the models introduced by our competitors and preserving our reputation for designing, building and selling safe and high quality cars that meet customer preferences is critical to our long-term profitability. we will launch a substantial number of new vehicles in 2015 . a successful launch of our new vehicles is critical to our short-term profitability. the pace of our development and introduction of new and improved vehicles depends on our ability to implement successfully improved technological innovations in design, engineering and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment and the ability to retain and recruit new talent. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by our suppliers. there can be no assurance that our competitors and others pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. our profitability is dependent upon the success of our higher margin vehicles and luxury brands. while we offer a balanced and complete portfolio of small, mid-size and large cars, cross-overs, sport utility vehicles (suvs) and trucks, we generally recognize higher profit margins on our full-size pick-up trucks and suvs. our success is dependent upon consumer preferences and our ability to market our higher margin vehicles. 13 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations. we are continuing to implement a number of cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives in our automotive operations, including labor modifications and substantial restructuring initiatives. our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these initiatives throughout our automotive operations. while some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others, such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our costs. reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase. any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule. our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, raw materials and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our use of just-in-time manufacturing processes allows us to maintain minimal inventory quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts. as a result our ability to maintain production is dependent upon our suppliers delivering sufficient quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts on time to meet our production schedules. in some instances we purchase systems, components, raw materials and parts from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. where we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components, raw materials or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules or suspend production entirely. an increase in cost of raw materials could materially harm our business. we use various raw materials in our business including steel, aluminum, copper, platinum and palladium. the prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. in recent years freight charges and raw material costs increased. substantial increases in the prices for our raw materials could reduce our profitability if we cannot recoup the increased costs through increased vehicle prices. some of these raw materials, such as corrosion-resistant steel, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. an increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, which may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as labor strikes, could negatively affect our net revenues and profitability to a material extent. we operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. the global automotive industry is highly competitive and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by attempting to sell more vehicles by adding vehicle enhancements, providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering marketing incentives or reducing vehicle prices. manufacturers in lower cost countries such as china and india have emerged as competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention of exporting their products to established markets as a bargain alternative to entry-level automobiles. these actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results, and present a significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle. our competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by industry consolidation or alliances. designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery, research and development, product design, engineering, technology and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and regulatory requirements. large original equipment manufacturers are able to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging their investments and activities on a global basis across brands and nameplates. if our competitors consolidate or enter into other strategic agreements such as alliances, they may be able to take better advantage of these economies of scale to enhance their competitiveness or liquidity position. our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various european countries, but we may not succeed in doing so. 14 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries we face difficult market and operating conditions in certain parts of the world that may require us to restructure, impair or rationalize these operations. in many countries across our regions we have experienced challenges in our operations and continue to strategically assess the manner in which we operate in certain countries. as we continue to assess our performance throughout the regions, additional restructuring, impairment and rationalization actions may be required and may be material. the key areas of our plan include: (1) investments in our product portfolio; (2) a revised brand strategy; and (3) reducing material, development and production costs. the success of our plan will depend on a combination of our ability to execute the actions contemplated, as well as external economic factors, which are outside of our control. we could be materially adversely affected by a negative outcome in unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or other legal proceedings related to the ignition switch recall. we are subject to legal proceedings involving various issues, including product liability lawsuits, stockholder litigation and governmental investigations, including class actions related to the ignition switch recall, such as a lawsuit for the alleged diminished value of vehicles affected by the ignition switch recall. refer to the "gm north america" section of management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations (md&amp;a) for additional information on the ignition switch recall. at this point we are unable to predict the duration, scope, developments in, results of or consequences of the government's investigations. such lawsuits and investigations could in the future result in the imposition of damages, substantial fines, civil lawsuits and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, modification of business practices, equitable remedies and other sanctions against us or our personnel as well as significant legal and other costs. because the matters are ongoing there can be no assurance as to how the resulting consequences, if any, may impact our business, reputation, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. we cannot currently estimate the potential liability, damages or range of potential loss as a result of the legal proceedings and governmental investigations. for a further discussion of these matters refer to note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. the costs and effect on our reputation of product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. from time to time we recall our products to address performance, compliance or safety-related issues. the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. in addition product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. conversely not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above. we are subject to extensive governmental laws, regulations and policies including safety, fuel economy, and greenhouse gas emissions, the enforcement of which or changes to existing ones, may have a significant effect on how we do business. we are affected significantly by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. we anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product lineup, will increase significantly in the future. these government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and may result in substantial costs, including civil or criminal penalties. they may also result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. in the u.s. automotive safety standards are regulated by the nhtsa, whose regulators require that automotive manufacturers implement safety measures such as recalls for vehicles that do not or may not comply with relevant safety standards. due to these regulations, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties or may incur various costs including significant costs for free repairs, if we are required to, or voluntarily decide to, implement safety measures such as a recall. for example, we are currently facing u.s. attorney for the southern district of new york, congressional, sec, transport canada and state investigations related to the ignition switch recall. in the u.s. vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions are regulated under a harmonized national program administered by the nhtsa and the epa. we are committed to meeting or exceeding these u.s. regulatory requirements. we expect that to comply with these requirements we will be required to sell a significant volume of hybrid electric vehicles, as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. there is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. 15 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries if we are not able to comply with specific new requirements then we could be subject to sizeable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. environmental liabilities for which we may be responsible are not reasonably estimable and could be substantial. violations of safety or emissions standards could result in the recall of one or more of our products, negotiated remedial actions, possible fines or a combination of any of those items. we must also cover the cost of repairs conducted under emission defect and performance warranties which apply for specified periods of time and mileage. in turn any of these actions could have substantial adverse effects on our operations including facility idling, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue. our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, changes in assumptions and investments that do not achieve adequate returns. our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. a detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is disclosed in the "critical accounting estimates" section of the md&amp;a and note 15 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. there are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market liquidity in particular asset classes and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. our future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the internal revenue service (irs) depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, as other factors are held constant. our potential funding requirements are described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. factors which affect future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-u.s. plans. certain plans outside the u.s. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our non-u.s. plans, we could be required to contribute more funds. shortages of and volatility in the price of oil may cause shifts in consumer vehicle demand. volatile oil prices in recent years have tended to cause a shift in consumer demand towards smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins. any increases in the price of oil or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of political instability in the middle east, south america and african nations, could weaken the demand for our higher margin full-size pick-up trucks and suvs, which could decrease. lower oil prices in oil producing countries could also impact our ability to sell vehicles in those countries. we rely on gm financial to provide financial services to our dealers and customers in a majority of the markets in which we sell vehicles. gm financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and financing to consumers and commercial lending to our dealers to support additional sales of our vehicles. we rely on gm financial in north america, europe, south america and china to support leasing and sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring vehicle financing and also to provide commercial lending to our dealers. any reduction of gm financial's ability to provide such financial services would negatively affect our efforts to support additional sales of our vehicles and expand our market penetration among consumers and dealers. the factors that could adversely affect gm financial's business and operations and reduce its ability to provide financing services at competitive rates include: the availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to fund its consumer and dealer finance activities; its ability to access a variety of financing sources including the asset-backed securities market and other secured and unsecured debt markets; the performance of loans and leases in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; 16 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries wholesale auction values of used vehicles; higher than expected vehicle return rates and the residual value performance on vehicles gm financial leases; fluctuations in interest rates and currencies; and changes to regulation, supervision and licensing across various jurisdictions. our planned investment in new technology in the future is significant and may not be funded at anticipated levels and, even if funded at anticipated levels, may not result in successful vehicle applications. we intend to invest significant capital resources to support our products and to develop new technology. in addition we plan to invest heavily in alternative fuel and advanced propulsion technologies in 2015 , largely to support our planned expansion of hybrid and electric vehicles. however if our future operations do not provide us with the cash flow we anticipate, we may be forced to reduce, delay or cancel our planned investments in new technology. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. there can be no assurance that advances in technology will occur in a timely or feasible way, that the funds that we have budgeted for these purposes will be adequate or that we will be able to establish our right to these technologies. security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology networks and systems could interfere with our operations and could compromise the confidentiality of our proprietary information. we rely upon information technology networks and systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including supply chain management, manufacturing, invoicing and collection of payments from our dealer network and from customers of gm financial. additionally we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, propriety business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. the secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information, is critical to our business operations and strategy. despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to our networks and systems or computer viruses. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. we have been the target of these types of attacks in the past with no material known impacts and future attacks are likely to occur. if successful, these types of attacks on our network or systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, or service failures could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, due to, among other things, the loss of proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our business operations and damage to our reputation. in addition any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to significant security attacks or disruptions resulting from such attacks. a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. many of our operations, primarily in china, are carried out by joint ventures such as shanghai general motors co., ltd. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures we are required to foster our relationships with our co-owners as well as promote the overall success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes or relationships deteriorate, our success in the joint venture may be materially adversely affected. the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. 17 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our business in china is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions. maintaining a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the automotive market in china is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. as the size of the chinese market continues to increase we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. in addition our business in china is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in china. we could be materially adversely affected by changes or imbalances in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. given the nature of the automotive industry and global spread of our business, we have significant exposures to risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. in preparing the consolidated financial statements we translate our revenues and expenses outside the u.s. into u.s. dollars using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the period and the assets and liabilities using the foreign currency exchange rate at the balance sheet date. our businesses outside the u.s. expose us to additional risks. the majority of our vehicles are sold outside the u.s. we are pursuing growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the u.s. operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including: economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as china; economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including imposing restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the u.s. and china; changes in foreign regulations impacting our overall business model restricting our ability to buy and sell our products in those countries, especially china; differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety; impact of compliance with u.s. and other foreign countries' export controls and economic sanctions; liabilities resulting from u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to the foreign corrupt practices act and certain other anti-corruption laws; differing labor regulations and union relationships; consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and political and economic instability, natural calamities, war and terrorism. * * * * * * * quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk automotive the overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the chief financial officer with support from the financial risk council which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. the financial risk council comprises members of our management and functions under the oversight of the audit committee and finance committee, committees of the board of directors. the audit committee and finance committee assist and guide the board of directors in its oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. a risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the financial risk council. our risk management policy intends to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures. the following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. the models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates and interest rate yield curves. for options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect of market shifts. there are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, due primarily to the assumption that interest rates change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. in addition the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency pairs or offsetting long-short positions in currency pairs which may significantly reduce the potential loss in value. 49 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries foreign currency exchange rate risk we have foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of the operations. at december 31, 2014 our most significant foreign currency exposures were the euro/u.s. dollar, euro/british pound, u.s. dollar/south korean won and u.s. dollar/mexican peso. derivative instruments such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2014 such contracts had remaining maturities of up to 23 months. at december 31, 2014 and 2013 the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $0.9 billion and $1.0 billion . this presentation utilizes a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives, embedded derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and excludes the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be $0.2 billion at december 31, 2014 and 2013 . we are exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial condition. the following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement losses (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2014 2013 foreign currency translation losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 19 $ 729 losses resulting from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements recorded in earnings $ 430 $ 352 interest rate risk we are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial instruments, primarily debt, capital lease obligations and certain marketable securities. at december 31, 2014 and 2013 we did not have any interest rate swap positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations. at december 31, 2014 and 2013 the fair value liability of debt and capital leases was $9.8 billion and $6.8 billion . the potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would be $0.4 billion and $0.3 billion at december 31, 2014 and 2013 . at december 31, 2014 and 2013 we had marketable securities of $8.0 billion and $7.2 billion classified as available-for-sale and $1.3 billion and $1.7 billion classified as trading. the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would be insignificant at december 31, 2014 and 2013 . automotive financing - gm financial interest rate risk fluctuations in market interest rates can affect gm financial's gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between: (1) interest earned on finance receivables; and (2) interest paid on debt, and could be affected by changes in interest rates. typically consumer finance receivables purchased by gm financial bear fixed interest rates and are funded by variable or fixed rate debt. commercial finance receivables originated by gm financial bear variable interest rates and are funded by variable rate debt. the variable rate debt is subject to adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to help mitigate interest rate risk or mismatched funding, gm financial may employ hedging strategies to lock in the interest rate spread. fixed interest rate receivables purchased by gm financial are pledged to secure borrowings under its credit facilities. amounts borrowed under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to protect the interest rate spread within each credit facility, gm financial is contractually required to enter into interest rate cap agreements in connection with borrowings under its credit facilities. 50 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries in gm financial's securitization transactions it can transfer fixed rate finance receivables to securitization trusts that, in turn, sell either fixed rate or floating rate securities to investors. derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps and caps, are used to manage the gross interest rate spread on the floating rate transactions. gm financial had interest rate swaps and caps in asset positions with notional amounts of $3.8 billion and $3.8 billion and interest rate swaps and caps in liability positions with notional amounts of $ 7.4 billion and $ 5.5 billion at december 31, 2014 and 2013 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. the following table summarizes gm financial's interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, excluding derivatives, by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2014 (dollars in millions): 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter fair value assets consumer finance receivables principal amounts $ 10,440 $ 7,336 $ 4,551 $ 2,308 $ 968 $ 382 $ 25,541 weighted-average annual percentage rate 10.26 % 10.45 % 10.56 % 10.82 % 11.04 % 11.21 % commercial finance receivables principal amounts $ 7,333 $ 79 $ 69 $ 87 $ 76 $ 51 $ 7,565 weighted-average annual percentage rate 6.17 % 4.63 % 4.41 % 4.36 % 4.38 % 4.67 % liabilities secured debt: credit facilities principal amounts $ 4,532 $ 1,593 $ 757 $ 141 $ 17 $ $ 6,991 weighted-average interest rate 4.36 % 5.92 % 6.34 % 8.63 % 8.87 % % securitization notes principal amounts $ 7,348 $ 5,703 $ 3,596 $ 1,190 $ 354 $ $ 18,237 weighted-average interest rate 1.94 % 1.86 % 2.04 % 2.50 % 3.06 % % unsecured debt: senior notes principal amounts $ $ 1,000 $ 2,795 $ 1,250 $ 1,405 $ 2,000 $ 8,707 weighted-average interest rate % 2.75 % 3.56 % 4.65 % 2.80 % 4.33 % credit facilities and other unsecured debt principal amounts $ 2,611 $ 881 $ 107 $ 85 $ 84 $ $ 3,772 weighted-average interest rate 10.33 % 9.70 % 5.64 % 5.14 % 5.14 % % the following table summarizes gm financial's interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, excluding derivatives, by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2013 (dollars in millions): 51 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter fair value assets consumer finance receivables principal amounts $ 9,576 $ 6,642 $ 4,162 $ 2,050 $ 820 $ 290 $ 22,652 weighted-average annual percentage rate 10.76 % 10.97 % 11.17 % 11.73 % 12.28 % 12.80 % commercial finance receivables principal amounts $ 5,731 $ 22 $ 25 $ 94 $ 117 $ 6 $ 6,016 weighted-average annual percentage rate 6.82 % 4.73 % 4.59 % 4.50 % 7.40 % 5.69 % liabilities secured debt: credit facilities principal amounts $ 6,297 $ 1,699 $ 796 $ 224 $ 19 $ $ 8,995 weighted-average interest rate 4.95 % 6.39 % 6.39 % 8.17 % 8.34 % % securitization notes principal amounts $ 5,218 $ 4,084 $ 2,321 $ 1,114 $ 348 $ $ 13,175 weighted-average interest rate 1.91 % 2.12 % 2.40 % 2.71 % 2.88 % % unsecured debt: senior notes principal amounts $ $ $ 1,000 $ 1,000 $ 1,250 $ 750 $ 4,106 weighted-average interest rate % % 2.75 % 4.75 % 4.65 % 4.25 % credit facilities and other unsecured debt principal amounts $ 2,108 $ 706 $ 90 $ $ 76 $ $ 2,972 weighted-average interest rate 9.68 % 8.82 % 6.48 % % 5.64 % % gm financial estimates the realization of finance receivables in future periods using discount rate, prepayment and credit loss assumptions similar to its historical experience. credit facilities and securitization notes payable amounts have been classified based on expected payoff. senior notes and convertible senior notes principal amounts have been classified based on maturity. foreign currency exchange rate risk gm financial is exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations, primarily those acquired from ally financial in 2013, into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect gm financial's financial condition. gm financial's policy is to finance receivables and lease assets with debt in the same currency. when a different currency is used gm financial typically uses foreign currency swaps to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local currency of the receivables and lease assets to minimize any impact to earnings. gm financial had foreign currency swaps in asset positions with notional amounts of $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion and in liability positions with notional amounts of $1.1 billion and $2.1 billion at december 31, 2014 and 2013 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. the following table summarizes the amounts of gm financial's foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement losses (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2014 2013 foreign currency translation gains (losses) recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (430 ) $ 11 gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements recorded in earnings $ (170 ) $ 151 gains (losses) resulting from foreign exchange swaps recorded in earnings 163 (149 ) net gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency exchange recorded in earnings $ (7 ) $ 2 * * * * * * * 52 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2014, based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014, based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended december 31, 2014 of the company and our report dated february 4, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 4, 2015 53 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2014. these financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of general motors company and subsidiaries at december 31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2014, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of public company accounting oversight board (united states), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2014, based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission and our report dated february 4, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 4, 2015 54 table of contents general motors company and subsidiariesrisk factors 12 risk factors for further discussion of these risks. 7 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries in the long-term, we expect that the ec will continue devising regulatory requirements on the emission test cycle, real driving emission, low temperature testing, fuel evaporation and obd. china china has implemented european type china 4 standards nationally with european obd requirements for all newly registered vehicles. cities such as beijing, shanghai and guangzhou each currently require china 5 standards for newly registered vehicles. in total 11 eastern municipalities and provinces will require china 5 standards prior to nationwide implementation in 2017. the china 5 standards include more stringent emission requirements and increase the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle's emission performance. china is considering a unique china 6 emission standard with the potential to combine elements of european and u.s. standards. local implementation is expected as early as 2019. automotive fuel economy u.s. and canada corporate average fuel economy (cafe) reporting is required for three separate fleets: domestically produced cars, imported cars and light-duty trucks. both car and light-duty truck standards were established using targets for various vehicle sizes and vehicle model sales volumes. in 2016 our domestic car standard is estimated to be 36.2 mpg, our import car standard is estimated to be 40.0 mpg, and our light-duty truck standard is estimated to be 27.1 mpg. our current product plan is expected to be compliant with the federal cafe program through the 2016 model year. in addition to federal cafe the epa requires compliance with greenhouse gas requirements that are similar to the cafe program. our current product plan is expected to be compliant with the federal greenhouse gas program through the 2016 model year. carb has agreed that compliance with the federal program is deemed to be compliant with the california program for the 2012 through 2016 model years. although canada has no parallel cafe-style fuel economy regulations there are canadian greenhouse gas regulations that are aligned with the u.s. epa regulations and the canadian fleets are expected to be compliant with the canadian regulations through the 2016 model year. europe the eu has implemented legislation regulating fleet average co 2 emissions in europe and has adopted an even more stringent fleet average co 2 target for 2020. requirements must be met through the introduction of co 2 reducing technologies on conventional gasoline and diesel engines or through ultra-low co 2 vehicles. we are developing a compliance plan by adopting operational co 2 targets for each market entry in europe. the ec will also devise regulatory requirements on the co 2 emission test cycle as of 2017. china china has both an individual vehicle pass-fail type approval requirement based on phase 2 standards and a fleet fuel consumption requirement based on phase 3 standards based on vehicle curb weight for the 2012 through 2015 calendar years. implementation began in 2012 with full compliance to 6.9l/100km required by 2015. china has continued subsidies for fuel efficient vehicles, plug-in hybrid, battery electric and fuel cell vehicles. china is now working on a more aggressive phase 4 fleet fuel consumption standard that is expected to apply beginning in 2016 with full compliance to 5.0l/100km required by 2020. industrial environmental control our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws including those regulating air emissions, water discharge, waste management and environmental cleanup. certain environmental statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. under certain circumstances these laws impose joint and several liability as well as liability for related damages to natural resources. refer to note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on environmental matters including site remediation. to mitigate the effects our worldwide operations have on the environment and reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with waste disposal, we are committed to converting as many of our worldwide operations as possible to landfill-free operations. at december 31, 2015, 90 (or approximately 50%) of our manufacturing operations were landfill-free. additionally we have 41 non-manufacturing operations that are landfill-free. at our landfill-free manufacturing operations approximately 89% of waste materials are reused or recycled and 9% are converted to energy at waste-to-energy facilities. including construction, demolition and remediation wastes, we estimate that we reused, recycled or composted over 2 million metric tons of waste materials at our global 8 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries manufacturing operations, converted over 140,000 metric tons of waste materials to energy at waste-to-energy facilities and avoided approximately 9 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions in the year ended december 31, 2015. in addition to minimizing our impact on the environment our landfill-free program and total waste reduction commitments generate revenue from the sale of production by-products, reduce our use of material, reduce our carbon footprint and help to reduce the risks and financial liabilities associated with waste disposal. we continue to search for ways to increase our use of renewable energy and improve our energy efficiency. at december 31, 2015 we had implemented projects globally that had increased our total renewable energy capacity to over 105 megawatts. in 2015 we also met the epa energy star challenge for industry (epa challenge) at seven of our sites globally by reducing energy intensity an average of 22% at these sites. to meet the epa challenge industrial sites must reduce energy intensity by 10% in five years or fewer. three of the sites achieved the goal for the first time, bringing the total number of gm-owned sites to have met the epa challenge to 73, with many sites achieving the goal multiple times. these efforts minimize our utility expenses and are part of our approach to addressing climate change through setting a greenhouse gas emissions reduction target, collecting accurate data, following our business plan and publicly reporting progress against our target. chemical regulations we continually monitor the implementation of chemical regulations to maintain compliance and evaluate their effect on our business, suppliers and the automotive industry. u.s. and canada governmental agencies in both the u.s. and canada continue to introduce new regulations and legislation related to the selection and use of chemicals or substances of concern by mandating broad prohibitions, green chemistry, life cycle analysis and product stewardship initiatives. these initiatives give broad regulatory authority to ban or restrict the use of certain chemical substances and potentially affect automobile manufacturers' responsibilities for vehicle components at the end of a vehicle's life, as well as chemical selection for product development and manufacturing. chemical restrictions in canada are progressing more rapidly than in the u.s. as a result of environment canada's chemical management plan to assess existing substances and implement risk management controls on any chemical deemed toxic. these emerging regulations will potentially lead to increases in costs and supply chain complexity. we believe that we are materially in compliance with these requirements or expect to be materially in compliance by the required date. the u.s. congress is currently pursuing an update of the toxic substances control act to grant the epa more authority to regulate and ban chemicals from use in the u.s. which, if passed, is expected to greatly increase the level of regulation of chemicals in vehicles. europe in 2007 the eu implemented its regulatory requirements, the eu reach regulation among others, to register, evaluate, authorize and restrict the use of chemical substances. this regulation requires chemical substances manufactured in or imported into the eu to be registered with the european chemicals agency before 2018. under this regulation, substances of very high concern may either require authorization for further use or may be restricted in the future. this could potentially increase the cost of certain alternative substances that are used to manufacture vehicles and parts, or result in a supply chain disruption when a substance is no longer available to meet production timelines. our research and development initiatives may be diverted to address future requirements. we believe that we are materially in compliance with these requirements or expect to be materially in compliance by the required date. safety in the u.s. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 prohibits the sale of any new vehicle or equipment in the u.s. that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by the national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa). if we or nhtsa determine that either a vehicle or vehicle equipment does not comply with a safety standard or if a vehicle defect creates an unreasonable safety risk the manufacturer is required to notify owners and provide a remedy. we are required to report certain information relating to certain customer complaints, warranty claims, field reports and notices and claims involving property damage, injuries and fatalities in the u.s. and claims involving fatalities outside the u.s. we are also required to report certain information concerning safety recalls and other safety campaigns outside the u.s. 9 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries outside the u.s. safety standards and recall regulations often have the same purpose as the u.s. standards but may differ in their requirements and test procedures, adding complexity to regulatory compliance. refer to note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on significant recall activities in 2014. automotive financing - gm financial gm financial is our global captive automotive finance company and our global provider of automobile finance solutions. gm financial conducts its business in north america, europe, south america and, as a result of the 2015 acquisition of ally financial, inc.'s (ally financial) equity interest in saic-gmac automotive finance company limited (saic-gmac), in china. gm financial provides retail lending, both loan and lease, across the credit spectrum. additionally gm financial offers commercial products to dealer customers that include new and used vehicle inventory financing, inventory insurance, working capital, capital improvement loans, and storage center financing. in north america gm financial's retail automobile finance programs include prime and sub-prime lending and full credit spectrum leasing. the sub-prime lending program is primarily offered to consumers with fico scores less than 620 who have limited access to automobile financing through banks and credit unions and is expected to sustain a higher level of credit losses than prime lending. the leasing product is offered through our franchised dealers and primarily targets prime consumers leasing new vehicles. gm financial is expanding its leasing, near prime and prime lending programs through our franchised dealers and anticipates that leasing and prime lending will become an increasing percentage of originations and the retail portfolio balance over time. internationally gm financial's retail automobile finance programs focus on prime quality financing through loan and lease products. gm financial seeks to fund its operations in each country through local sources of funding to minimize currency and country risk. gm financial primarily finances its loan, lease and commercial origination volume through the use of secured and unsecured credit facilities, through securitization transactions where such markets are developed and through the issuance of unsecured debt. in the three months ended september 30, 2015 gm financial began accepting deposits from retail banking customers in germany. employees at december 31, 2015 we employed 130,000 ( 61% ) hourly employees and 85,000 ( 39% ) salaried employees. at december 31, 2015 52,000 ( 54% ) of our u.s. employees were represented by unions, a majority of which were represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agriculture implement workers of america (uaw). the following table summarizes worldwide employment (in thousands): december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 gmna 115 110 109 gme 36 37 37 gmio 32 33 36 gmsa 24 29 31 gm financial 8 7 6 total worldwide 215 216 219 u.s. - salaried 45 40 36 u.s. - hourly 52 51 51 executive officers of the registrant as of february 3, 2016 the names and ages of our executive officers and their positions with gm are as follows: 10 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries name (age) present gm position (effective date) positions held during the past five years (effective date) mary t. barra (54) chairman &amp; chief executive officer (2016) chief executive officer and member of the board of directors (2014) executive vice president, global product development, purchasing &amp; supply chain (2013) senior vice president, global product development (2011) vice president, global human resources (2009) daniel ammann (43) president (2014) executive vice president &amp; chief financial officer (2013) senior vice president &amp; chief financial officer (2011) gm vice president, finance &amp; treasurer (2010) jaime ardila (60)(a) executive vice president &amp; president, south america (2013) vice president &amp; president, south america (2010) alan s. batey (52) executive vice president &amp; president, north america (2014) senior vice president, global chevrolet and brand chief and u.s. sales and marketing (2013) gm vice president, u.s. sales and service, and interim gm chief marketing officer (2012) vice president, u.s. chevrolet sales and service (2010) james b. deluca (54) executive vice president, global manufacturing (2014) vice president, manufacturing, gm international operations (2013) vice president, quality, gm international operations (2009) carel johannes de nysschen (55) executive vice president &amp; president, cadillac (2014) infiniti motor company, president (2012) audi of america, inc., president (2004) barry l. engle (52) executive vice president &amp; president, south america (2015) agility fuel systems, ceo (2011) think holdings, ceo (2010) stefan jacoby (57) executive vice president &amp; president, gm international (2013) volvo car corporation - global chief executive officer and president (2010) craig b. glidden (58) executive vice president &amp; general counsel (2015) lyondellbasell, executive vice president and chief legal officer (2009) karl-thomas neumann (54) executive vice president &amp; president, europe and chairman of the management board of opel group gmbh (2013) ceo, opel group gmbh &amp; president, gm europe (2013) volkswagen group china - chief executive officer and president (2010) john j. quattrone (63) senior vice president, global human resources (2014) vp of human resources, global product development &amp; global purchasing &amp; supply chain / corporate strategy, business development &amp; global planning &amp; program organizations (2009) mark l. reuss (52) executive vice president, global product development, purchasing &amp; supply chain (2014) executive vice president &amp; president, north america (2013) gm vice president &amp; president, north america (2009) gm vice president, global vehicle engineering (2009) charles k. stevens, iii (56) executive vice president &amp; chief financial officer (2014) chief financial officer, gm north america (2010) interim chief financial officer, gm south america (2011) matthew tsien (55) executive vice president &amp; president, gm china (2014) gm consolidated international operations vice president, planning, program management, &amp; strategic alliances china (2012) executive vice president, saic gm wuling (2009) thomas s. timko (47) vice president, controller &amp; chief accounting officer (2013) applied materials inc. - corporate vice president, chief accounting officer, and corporate controller (2010) __________ (a) retiring effective early 2016. there are no family relationships between any of the officers named above and there is no arrangement or understanding between any of the officers named above and any other person pursuant to which he or she was selected as an officer. each of the officers named above was elected by the board of directors or a committee of the board of directors to hold office until the next annual election of officers and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. the board of directors elects the officers immediately following each annual meeting of the stockholders and may appoint other officers between annual meetings. segment reporting data operating segment data and principal geographic area data for the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 are summarized in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements. 11 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries website access to our reports our internet website address is www.gm.com. in addition to the information about us and our subsidiaries contained in this 2015 form 10-k information about us can be found on our website including information on our corporate governance principles and practices. our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this 2015 form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy the materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. additionally the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. the address of the sec's website is www.sec.gov. * * * * * * * item 1a. risk factors we face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. while we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term is dependent upon our ability to fund and introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers. we operate in a very competitive industry with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models designed to meet rapidly evolving consumer expectations. producing new and improved vehicle models competitively and preserving our reputation for designing, building and selling high quality cars and trucks is critical to our long-term profitability. we will launch a substantial number of new vehicles in 2016 . successful launches of our new vehicles are critical to our short-term profitability. in addition, our growth strategies require us to make significant investment in our brands to appeal to new markets. our long-term profitability depends upon our successfully creating and funding technological innovations in design, engineering and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment and the ability to retain and recruit talent. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by our suppliers. although we will seek to obtain intellectual property protection for our innovations to protect our competitive position, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. there can be no assurance that advances in technology will occur in a timely or feasible way, or that others will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or that we will acquire technologies on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. it generally takes two years or more to design and develop a new vehicle, and a number of factors may lengthen that time period. because of this product development cycle and the various elements that may contribute to consumers' acceptance of new vehicle designs, including competitors' product introductions, technological innovations, fuel prices, general economic conditions and changes in styling preferences, an initial product concept or design may not result in a vehicle that generates sales in sufficient quantities and at high enough prices to be profitable. our high proportion of fixed costs, both due to our significant investment in property, plant and equipment as well as other requirements of our collective bargaining agreements, which limit our flexibility to adjust personnel costs to changes in demands for our products, may further exacerbate the risks associated with incorrectly assessing demand for our vehicles. our profitability is dependent upon the success of full-size pick-up trucks and suvs. while we offer a balanced and complete portfolio of small, mid-size and large cars, crossovers, suvs and trucks, we generally recognize higher profit margins on our full-size pick-up trucks and suvs. our success is dependent upon consumer preferences and our ability to sell higher margin vehicles in sufficient volumes. any increases in the price of oil or any sustained shortage of 12 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries oil, including as a result of global political instability, could cause a shift in consumer demand towards smaller, more fuel efficient vehicles, and weaken the demand for our higher margin full-size pick-up trucks and suvs. our business is highly dependent upon the global automobile market sales volume, which can be volatile. our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, changes to which can have a disproportionately large effect on our profitability. a number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, levels of unemployment, availability of affordable financing, fluctuations in the cost of fuel, consumer confidence, political unrest and global economic conditions. we cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty. our business in china is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions. maintaining a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the automotive market in china is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. as the size of the chinese market continues to increase we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. in addition our business in china is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in china. a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. many of our operations, primarily in china, are carried out by joint ventures. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures we are required to foster our relationships with our co-owners as well as promote the overall success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes or relationships deteriorate, our success in the joint venture may be materially adversely affected. the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners; therefore, we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. in addition, because we share ownership and management with one or more parties, we may have limited control over the actions of a joint venture, particularly when we own a minority interest. as a result, we may be unable to prevent misconduct or other violations of applicable laws by a joint venture. moreover, a joint venture may not follow the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. to the extent another party makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control issues arise within the joint venture, we may have to take responsive or other action or we may be subject to penalties, fines or other related actions for these activities that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our businesses outside the u.s. expose us to additional risks. the majority of our vehicles are sold outside the u.s. we are pursuing growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the u.s. operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as china; economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including imposing restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the u.s. and china, more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry; changes in foreign regulations impacting our overall business model restricting our ability to buy and sell our products in those countries, especially china; differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety; impact of compliance with u.s. and other foreign countries' export controls and economic sanctions; liabilities resulting from u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to the foreign corrupt practices act and certain other anti-corruption laws; 13 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries differing labor regulations and union relationships; consequences from changes in tax laws; and difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations. we are subject to extensive laws, governmental regulations and policies, including those regarding fuel economy and emissions control, the enforcement of which or changes to existing ones, could cause us to incur increased costs or to face regulatory enforcement action and may have a significant effect on how we do business. we are significantly affected by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. meeting or exceeding many of these regulations is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may not be harmonized across jurisdictions, a notable challenge with respect to mandated emissions and fuel economy standards. we anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product lineup, may increase significantly in the future. these government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and given the uncertainty surrounding enforcement and regulatory definitions, may result in substantial costs, including civil or criminal penalties. in addition, an evolving but un-harmonized regulatory framework may limit or dictate the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. refer to the "environmental and regulatory matters" section of item 1. business for a discussion of these regulatory requirements. we also expect that manufacturers will be subject to increased scrutiny from regulators globally as a result of the well-publicized emissions scandal involving an unrelated automotive manufacturer in 2015. for example, government agencies in several countries have asked us for information; one of these, the german ministry of transportation, is requesting the participation of a number of automotive manufacturers, including our german subsidiary, in discussions on emissions control issues and has requested a written response from our subsidiary on the subject. this scrutiny, regulatory changes and increased enforcement may lead to increased testing and re-testing of our vehicles and analysis of their emissions control systems, which could lead to increased costs, penalties, negative publicity or reputational impact, and recall activity if regulators determine that emission levels and required regulatory compliance should be based on either a wider spectrum of driving conditions for future testing parameters or stricter or novel interpretations and consequent enforcement of existing requirements. no assurance can be given that the ultimate outcome of any potential investigations or increased testing resulting from this scrutiny would not materially and adversely affect us. we are committed to meeting or exceeding fuel economy and emission control requirements. we expect that to comply with these requirements we will be required to sell a significant volume of hybrid electric vehicles, as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. there is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. alternative compliance measures may not be sufficiently available in the marketplace to meet volume driven compliance requirements. environmental liabilities for which we may be responsible are not reasonably estimable and could be substantial. violations of safety or emissions standards could result in the recall of one or more of our products, negotiated remedial actions, possible fines, restricted product offerings or a combination of any of those items. any of these actions could have substantial adverse effects on our operations including facility idling, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue. we could be materially adversely affected by a negative outcome in unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or other legal proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings involving various issues, including product liability lawsuits, stockholder litigation and governmental investigations, such as the legal proceedings related to the ignition switch recall. refer to the "gm north america" section of md&amp;a for additional information on the ignition switch recall. such legal proceedings could in the future result in the imposition of damages, including punitive damages, substantial fines, civil lawsuits and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, modification of business practices, equitable remedies and other sanctions against us or our personnel as well as significant legal and other costs. for a further discussion of these matters refer to note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. if, in the discretion of the u.s. attorney's office for the southern district of new york (the office), we do not comply with the terms of the deferred prosecution agreement (the dpa), the office may prosecute us for charges alleged by the office including those relating to faulty ignition switches. on september 17, 2015 we announced that we entered into the dpa with the office regarding its investigation of the events leading up to certain recalls announced in february and march 2014 relating to faulty ignition switches. under the dpa, we 14 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries consented to, among other things, the filing of a two-count information (the information) in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york charging gm with a scheme to conceal material facts from a government regulator and wire fraud. we pled not guilty to the charges alleged in the information. the dpa further provides that, in the event the office determines during the period of deferral of prosecution (or any extensions thereof) that we have violated any provision of the dpa, including violating any u.s. federal law or our obligation to cooperate with and assist the independent monitor, the office may, in its discretion, either prosecute us on the charges alleged in the information or impose an extension of the period of deferral of prosecution of up to one additional year. under such circumstance, the office would be permitted to rely upon the admissions we made in the dpa and would benefit from our waiver of certain procedural and evidentiary defenses. such a criminal prosecution could subject us to penalties that could have material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the costs and effect on our reputation of product safety recalls could materially adversely affect our business. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy certain product safety defects through recall campaigns. under these standards, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties or may incur various costs, including significant costs for free repairs. at present, the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. we currently source a variety of systems, components, raw materials and parts, including but not limited to air bag inflators, from third parties. from time to time these items may have performance or quality issues that could harm our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. for example, based on defect information reports filed with nhtsa by tk holdings inc. (takata), we are currently conducting recalls for certain takata air bag inflators used in some of our prior model year vehicles. we are continuing to assess the situation. further recalls, if any, that may be required to remediate takata air bag inflators in our vehicles could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in addition product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. conversely not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation, potentially expose us to significant monetary penalties, and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above. any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule. our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, raw materials and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our use of just-in-time manufacturing processes allows us to maintain minimal inventory quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts. as a result our ability to maintain production is dependent upon our suppliers delivering sufficient quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts on time to meet our production schedules. in some instances we purchase systems, components, raw materials and parts from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. financial difficulties or solvency problems with our suppliers, which may be exacerbated by the cost of remediating quality issues with these items, could lead to uncertainty in our supply chain or cause supply disruptions for us which could, in turn, disrupt our operations, including production of certain of our higher margin vehicles. where we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components, raw materials or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules or suspend production entirely. we are dependent on our manufacturing facilities around the world. we assemble vehicles at various facilities around the world. these facilities are typically designed to produce particular models for particular geographic markets. no single facility is designed to manufacture our full range of vehicles. in some cases certain facilities produce products that disproportionately contribute a greater degree of profit to the company than others. should these or other facilities become unavailable either temporarily or permanently for any number of reasons, including labor disruptions, the inability to manufacture vehicles there may result in harm to our reputation, increased costs, lower revenues and the loss of customers. we may not be able to easily shift production of vehicles at an inoperable facility to other facilities or to make up for lost production. any new facility needed to replace an inoperable manufacturing facility would need to comply with the necessary regulatory requirements, need to satisfy our specialized manufacturing requirements and require specialized equipment. even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available or any losses which may be excluded under our insurance policies. if we do not deliver new products, services and customer experiences in response to new participants in the automotive industry, our business could suffer. 15 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries we believe that the automotive industry will experience more change in the next five years than it has in the previous 50 years. in addition to our traditional competitors, we must also be responsive to the entrance of non-traditional participants in the automotive industry. these non-traditional participants may seek to disrupt the historic business model of the industry through the introduction of new technologies, new products or services, new business models or new methods of travel. it is strategically significant that we lead the technological disruption occurring in our industry. as our business evolves, the pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services, including products and services that may be outside of our historically core business. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond to new kinds of technological innovations, market developments and changing customer needs, our sales, profitability and long-term competitiveness may be harmed. we operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. the global automotive industry is highly competitive and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering marketing incentives or reducing vehicle prices. our competitors may also seek to benefit from economies of scale by consolidating or entering into other strategic agreements such as alliances intended to enhance their competitiveness. manufacturers in lower cost countries, such as china and india, have become competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention of exporting their products to established markets as a low cost alternative to established entry-level automobiles. these actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results, and present a significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle. we may continue to restructure our operations in various countries, but we may not succeed in doing so. we face difficult market and operating conditions in certain parts of the world that may require us to restructure, impair or rationalize these operations. in many countries across our regions we have experienced challenges in our operations and continue to strategically assess the manner in which we operate in certain countries. as we continue to assess our performance throughout the regions, additional restructuring, impairment and rationalization actions may be required and may be material. our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement operating effectiveness initiatives throughout our automotive operations. we are continuing to implement a number of operating effectiveness initiatives to improve productivity and reduce costs. our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these initiatives throughout our automotive operations. while some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others, such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our costs. reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase. security breaches and other disruptions to our vehicles, information technology networks and systems could interfere with the safety of our customers or our operations and could compromise the confidentiality of private customer data or our proprietary information. we rely upon information technology networks and systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of vehicle or business processes and activities. additionally we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, propriety business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. the secure operation of these information technology networks and in-vehicle systems, and the processing and maintenance of this information, is critical to our business operations and strategy. despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and systems and in-vehicle systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to our networks and systems or computer viruses. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. these occurrences could also impact vehicle safety. we have been the target of these types of attacks in the past with no known material impacts and future attacks are likely to occur. if successful, these types of attacks on our network 16 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries or systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, or service failures could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, due to, among other things, the loss of proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our business operations and damage to our reputation. in addition any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to significant security attacks or disruptions resulting from such attacks. we rely on gm financial to provide financial services to our dealers and customers in a majority of the markets in which we sell vehicles. gm financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and financing to retail consumers and commercial lending to our dealers to support additional sales of our vehicles. we rely on gm financial in north america, europe, south america and china to support leasing and sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring vehicle financing and also to provide commercial lending to our dealers. any reduction of gm financial's ability to provide such financial services would negatively affect our efforts to support additional sales of our vehicles and expand our market penetration among consumers and dealers. as an entity operating in the financial services sector, gm financial is required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations that may be costly to adhere to and may affect our consolidated operating results. compliance with these laws and regulations requires that gm financial maintain forms, processes, procedures, controls and the infrastructure to support these requirements and these laws and regulations often create operational constraints both on gm financial's ability to implement servicing procedures and on pricing. laws in the financial services industry are designed primarily for the protection of consumers. the failure to comply with these laws could result in significant statutory civil and criminal penalties, monetary damages, attorneys' fees and costs, possible revocation of licenses and damage to reputation, brand and valued customer relationships. the primary factors that could adversely affect gm financial's business and operations and reduce its ability to provide financing services at competitive rates include: the availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to fund its retail and dealer finance activities; its ability to access a variety of financing sources including the asset-backed securities market and other secured and unsecured debt markets; the performance of loans and leases in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; wholesale auction values of used vehicles; higher than expected vehicle return rates and the residual value performance on vehicles gm financial leases to customers; fluctuations in interest rates and currencies; and changes to regulation, supervision and licensing across various jurisdictions, including new regulations or sanctions imposed in the u.s. by the department of justice, sec and consumer financial protection bureau. our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, changes in laws or regulations, changes in assumptions or investments that do not achieve adequate returns. our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. a detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is disclosed in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. there are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market liquidity in particular asset classes and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. our future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit pension plans depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans 17 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries and any changes in government laws and regulations. future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, assuming other factors are held constant. our potential funding requirements are described in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. factors which affect future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-u.s. plans. certain plans outside the u.s. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our non-u.s. plans, we could be required to contribute more funds. * * * * * * * quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk automotive 45 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries the overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the chief financial officer with support from the financial risk council which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. the financial risk council comprises members of our management and functions under the oversight of the audit committee and finance committee, committees of the board of directors. the audit committee and finance committee assist and guide the board of directors in its oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. a risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the financial risk council. our financial risk management policy is designed to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures. the following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. the models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates and interest rate yield curves. for options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect of market shifts. there are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, due primarily to the assumption that interest rates change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. in addition the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency pairs or offsetting long-short positions in currency pairs which may significantly reduce the potential loss in value. foreign currency exchange rate risk we have foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of our operations. at december 31, 2015 our most significant foreign currency exposures were the euro/british pound, euro/u.s. dollar, u.s. dollar/mexican peso, euro/south korean won, u.s. dollar/south korean won and u.s. dollar/cad. derivative instruments such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2015 such contracts had remaining maturities of up to 20 months. at december 31, 2015 and 2014 the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $0.8 billion and $0.9 billion . these amounts are calculated utilizing a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives, embedded derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and exclude the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would have been $0.3 billion and $0.2 billion at december 31, 2015 and 2014 . we are exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial condition. the following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement losses (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2015 2014 translation losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 302 $ 19 transaction and remeasurement losses recorded in earnings $ 813 $ 430 interest rate risk we are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial instruments, primarily debt, capital lease obligations and certain marketable securities. at december 31, 2015 and 2014 we did not have any interest rate swap positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations. at december 31, 2015 and 2014 the fair value liability of debt and capital leases was $9.1 billion and $9.8 billion . the potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would have been $0.4 billion at december 31, 2015 and 2014 . 46 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries at december 31, 2015 and 2014 we had marketable securities of $7.6 billion and $8.0 billion classified as available-for-sale and $0.6 billion and $1.3 billion classified as trading. the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have been insignificant at december 31, 2015 and 2014 . automotive financing - gm financial interest rate risk fluctuations in market interest rates can affect gm financial's gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between interest earned on finance receivables and interest paid on debt. typically retail finance receivables purchased by gm financial bear fixed interest rates and are funded by variable or fixed rate debt. commercial finance receivables originated by gm financial bear variable interest rates and are funded by variable rate debt. the variable rate debt is subject to adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to help mitigate interest rate risk or mismatched funding, gm financial may employ hedging strategies to lock in the interest rate spread. fixed interest rate receivables purchased by gm financial are pledged to secure borrowings under its credit facilities. amounts borrowed under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to protect the interest rate spread within each credit facility, gm financial is contractually required to enter into interest rate cap agreements in connection with borrowings under its credit facilities. in gm financial's securitization transactions it can transfer fixed rate finance receivables to securitization trusts that, in turn, sell either fixed rate or floating rate securities to investors. derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps and caps, are used to manage the gross interest rate spread on the floating rate transactions. gm financial had interest rate swaps and caps in asset positions with notional amounts of $10.4 billion and $3.8 billion and interest rate swaps and caps in liability positions with notional amounts of $ 13.9 billion and $ 7.4 billion at december 31, 2015 and 2014 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. the following table summarizes gm financial's interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, excluding derivatives, by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2015 (dollars in millions): 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter fair value assets retail finance receivables principal amounts $ 11,415 $ 8,204 $ 5,136 $ 2,715 $ 1,268 $ 523 $ 28,545 weighted-average annual percentage rate 9.03 % 9.08 % 9.09 % 9.17 % 9.16 % 9.37 % commercial finance receivables principal amounts $ 7,900 $ 106 $ 103 $ 101 $ 72 $ 98 $ 8,162 weighted-average annual percentage rate 2.85 % 4.45 % 4.32 % 4.33 % 4.39 % 4.24 % liabilities secured debt: credit facilities principal amounts $ 5,563 $ 1,286 $ 592 $ 95 $ 11 $ $ 7,494 weighted-average interest rate 2.50 % 3.85 % 3.92 % 5.53 % 4.86 % % securitization notes principal amounts $ 8,887 $ 7,882 $ 5,096 $ 1,025 $ 306 $ $ 23,177 weighted-average interest rate 1.80 % 1.84 % 2.17 % 2.60 % 2.59 % % unsecured debt: senior notes principal amounts $ 1,000 $ 2,738 $ 3,106 $ 3,093 $ 4,110 $ 5,050 $ 19,045 weighted-average interest rate 2.75 % 3.57 % 3.08 % 2.93 % 3.22 % 4.04 % credit facilities and other unsecured debt principal amounts $ 3,343 $ 916 $ 353 $ 72 $ $ $ 4,681 weighted-average interest rate 7.89 % 8.31 % 2.74 % 5.19 % % % 47 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries the following table summarizes gm financial's interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, excluding derivatives, by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2014 (dollars in millions): 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter fair value assets retail finance receivables principal amounts $ 10,440 $ 7,336 $ 4,551 $ 2,308 $ 968 $ 382 $ 25,541 weighted-average annual percentage rate 10.26 % 10.45 % 10.56 % 10.82 % 11.04 % 11.21 % commercial finance receivables principal amounts $ 7,333 $ 79 $ 69 $ 87 $ 76 $ 51 $ 7,565 weighted-average annual percentage rate 6.17 % 4.63 % 4.41 % 4.36 % 4.38 % 4.67 % liabilities secured debt: credit facilities principal amounts $ 4,532 $ 1,593 $ 757 $ 141 $ 17 $ $ 6,991 weighted-average interest rate 4.36 % 5.92 % 6.34 % 8.63 % 8.87 % % securitization notes principal amounts $ 7,348 $ 5,703 $ 3,596 $ 1,190 $ 354 $ $ 18,237 weighted-average interest rate 1.94 % 1.86 % 2.04 % 2.50 % 3.06 % % unsecured debt: senior notes principal amounts $ $ 1,000 $ 2,795 $ 1,250 $ 1,405 $ 2,000 $ 8,707 weighted-average interest rate % 2.75 % 3.56 % 4.65 % 2.80 % 4.33 % credit facilities and other unsecured debt principal amounts $ 2,611 $ 881 $ 107 $ 85 $ 84 $ $ 3,772 weighted-average interest rate 10.33 % 9.70 % 5.64 % 5.14 % 5.14 % % gm financial estimates the realization of finance receivables in future periods using discount rate, prepayment and credit loss assumptions similar to its historical experience. credit facilities and securitization notes payable amounts have been classified based on expected payoff. senior notes and convertible senior notes principal amounts have been classified based on maturity. foreign currency exchange rate risk gm financial is exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect gm financial's financial condition. gm financial primarily finances its receivables and leased assets with debt in the same currency. when a different currency is used gm financial may use foreign currency swaps to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local currency of the receivables and lease assets to minimize any impact to earnings. gm financial had foreign currency swaps in asset positions with notional amounts of $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion and in liability positions with notional amounts of $0 and $1.1 billion at december 31, 2015 and 2014 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. the following table summarizes the amounts of gm financial's foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement losses (dollars in millions): years ended december 31, 2015 2014 foreign currency translation losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (669 ) $ (430 ) losses resulting from foreign currency transactions and remeasurements recorded in earnings $ (58 ) $ (170 ) gains resulting from foreign exchange swaps recorded in earnings 42 163 net losses resulting from foreign currency exchange recorded in earnings $ (16 ) $ (7 ) 48 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries * * * * * * * 49 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended december 31, 2015 of the company and our report dated february 3, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 3, 2016 50 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2015. these financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. an audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. an audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. in our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of general motors company and subsidiaries at december 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2015, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of public company accounting oversight board (united states), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission and our report dated february 3, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 3, 2016 51 table of contents general motors company and subsidiariesrisk factors 11 risk factors for further discussion of these risks. combined purchases 5 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries from our two largest suppliers have ranged from approximately 11% to 12% of our total purchases in the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . environmental and regulatory matters automotive emissions control we are subject to laws and regulations that require us to control automotive emissions, including vehicle exhaust emission standards, vehicle evaporative emission standards and onboard diagnostic (obd) system requirements. advanced obd systems are used to identify and diagnose problems with emission control systems. problems detected by the obd system and in-use compliance monitoring may increase warranty costs and the likelihood of recall. emission and obd requirements become more stringent each year as vehicles must meet lower emission standards and new diagnostics are required throughout the world with very little harmonization of global regulations. zero emission vehicle (zev) requirements have been adopted by some u.s. states as well as the canadian province of quebec and there is the possibility that additional jurisdictions could adopt zev requirements in the future. while we believe all our products are designed and manufactured in material compliance with substantially all vehicle emissions requirements, regulatory authorities may conduct ongoing evaluations of the emissions compliance of products from all manufacturers. this includes vehicle emissions testing, including co 2 and nitrogen oxide emissions testing, and review of emission control strategies. the u.s. federal government imposes stringent emission control requirements on vehicles sold in the u.s. and various state governments impose additional requirements. canada's federal government vehicle emission requirements are generally aligned with the u.s. federal requirements. each model year we must obtain certification for each test group that our vehicles will meet emission requirements from the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) before we can sell vehicles in the u.s. and canada and from the california air resources board (carb) before we can sell vehicles in california and other states that have adopted the california emissions requirements. carb's latest emission requirements include more stringent exhaust emission and evaporative emission standards including an increase in zevs which must be offered for sale in california. carb has adopted 2018 model year and later requirements for increasing volumes of zevs to achieve greenhouse gas as well as criteria pollutant emission reductions to help achieve the state's long-term greenhouse gas reduction goals. the epa has adopted similar exhaust emission and evaporative emission standards which phase in with the 2017 model year, but do not include zev requirements. these new requirements will also increase the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle's emission performance. the clean air act permits states that have areas with air quality compliance issues to adopt the california car and light-duty truck emission standards in lieu of the federal requirements. thirteen states currently have these standards in effect and 10 of these 13 states have adopted the zev requirements. emissions in the european union are regulated by the european commission (ec) and by governmental authorities in each european union member state (eu member states). the ec imposes emission control requirements on vehicles sold in all 28 eu member states. we must demonstrate that vehicles will meet emission requirements from an approval authority in one eu member state before we can sell vehicles in any eu member state. the regulatory requirements include random testing of newly assembled vehicles and a manufacturer in-use surveillance program. the european union requirements are equivalent in terms of stringency and implementation to the framework of the united nations economic commission for europe. the existing level of european union exhaust emission standards for cars and light-duty trucks, euro 6, was effective in 2014 for new vehicle approvals and 2015 for new vehicle registrations. future emission standards focus particularly on further reducing emissions from diesel vehicles by introducing new testing criteria based on real world driving emissions (rde). rde tests will become effective in 2017. the new requirements will require additional technologies and further increase the cost of diesel engines, which currently cost more than gasoline engines to manufacture. to comply with rde tests we believe it will be necessary to implement technologies which will introduce additional cost pressures on the already challenging european union market for small and mid-size diesel vehicles. declines in diesel penetration may make fleet co 2 compliance more challenging. gasoline engines are also affected by the new requirements. the potential implementation of technology into gasoline vehicles to reduce exhaust pollutant emissions may further increase the cost of gasoline engines and could have adverse effects on vehicle fuel economy. in addition, increased scrutiny of compliance with emissions standards may result in changes to these standards, including the implementation of rde tests, as well as stricter interpretations or redefinition of these standards and more rigorous enforcement. this may lead to increased costs, penalties, lack of certainty with respect to product portfolio planning, negative publicity or reputation impact for us. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion of these risks. 6 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries in the long-term, we expect that the ec will continue devising regulatory requirements on the emission test cycle, rde, low temperature testing, fuel evaporation and obd. china has implemented european type china 4 standards nationally with european obd requirements for new vehicle registrations. cities such as beijing, shanghai and guangzhou each currently require china 5 standards for new vehicle registrations. china implemented the china 5 standards for light duty gasoline nationwide at the beginning of 2017. the china 5 standards include more stringent emission requirements and increase the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle's emission performance. china officially released a unique china 6 emission standard with the potential to combine elements of both european and u.s. standards. local implementation is expected as early as 2018. nationwide implementation for new registrations is expected in july 2020 for the base china 6a standard and july 2023 for the more stringent china 6b standard. in south america certain countries follow the u.s. test procedures, standards and obd requirements and others follow the european union test procedures, standards and obd requirements with different levels of stringency. brazil implemented national l6 standards for light diesel vehicles in 2012 and obd installation for light diesel vehicles in 2015. l6 standards for light gasoline vehicles were implemented in 2015 for all models. automotive fuel economy in the u.s., corporate average fuel economy (cafe) reporting is required for three separate fleets: domestically produced cars, imported cars and light-duty trucks. both car and light-duty truck standards were established using targets for various vehicle sizes and vehicle model sales volumes. in 2017 our domestic car standard is estimated to be 38.1 mpg, our import car standard is estimated to be 41.7 mpg, and our light-duty truck standard is estimated to be 27.6 mpg. our current product plan is expected to be compliant with the federal cafe program through the 2017 model year. in addition to federal cafe reporting, the epa requires compliance with greenhouse gas requirements that are similar to the cafe program. our current product plan is expected to be compliant with the federal greenhouse gas program through the 2017 model year. carb has agreed that compliance with the federal program is deemed to be compliant with the california program for the 2012 through 2017 model years. although canada has no parallel cafe-style fuel economy regulations there are canadian greenhouse gas regulations that are aligned with the u.s. epa regulations and canadian fleets are expected to be compliant with these regulations through the 2017 model year. we regularly evaluate our current and future product plans and strategies for compliance with fuel economy and greenhouse gas regulations. unlike other jurisdictions, the european union's climate change policy framework focuses on fleet average co 2 emissions rather than fuel economy. the european union has implemented legislation regulating fleet average co 2 emissions in europe and has adopted an even more stringent fleet average co 2 target for 2020. requirements must be met through the introduction of co 2 reducing technologies on conventional gasoline and diesel engines or through ultra-low co 2 vehicles. we are developing a compliance plan by adopting operational co 2 targets for each market entry in europe. the ec will also devise regulatory requirements on the co 2 emission test cycle as of 2017. china has both an individual vehicle pass-fail type approval requirement based on phase 3 standards and a fleet fuel consumption requirement based on phase 4 standards effective in 2016. the china phase 4 fleet fuel consumption standard is based on curb weight with full compliance to 5.0 l/100 km required by 2020. china has continued subsidies for plug-in hybrid, battery electric and fuel cell vehicles. china proposes a phase 5 fleet fuel consumption standard effective beginning in 2021 with full compliance to 4.0l/100km required by 2025. in brazil the government has set fuel economy requirements called inovar auto. original equipment manufacturers have mandatory fleet average compliance required by october 2017 resulting in a reduction from 2012 levels. the brazilian government provides indirect tax incentives to eligible participant companies that meet certain requirements including these fuel economy targets. the level of potential indirect tax incentives varies based on the timing and degree to which the targets are met. participating companies that fail to meet the required criteria are subject to clawback provisions and specific fines. industrial environmental control our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws including those regulating air emissions, water discharge, waste management and environmental cleanup. certain environmental statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. under certain circumstances these laws impose joint and several liability as well as liability for related damages to natural resources. to mitigate the effects our worldwide operations have on the environment and reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with waste disposal, we are committed to converting as many of our worldwide operations as possible to landfill-free operations. at december 31, 2016 , 100 (or approximately 60%) of our manufacturing operations were landfill-free. additionally we have 52 7 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries non-manufacturing operations that are landfill-free. at our landfill-free manufacturing operations approximately 90% of waste materials are reused or recycled and approximately 10% are converted to energy at waste-to-energy facilities. including construction, demolition and remediation wastes, we estimate that we reused, recycled or composted over 2.5 million metric tons of waste materials at our global manufacturing operations, converted over 137,000 metric tons of waste materials to energy at waste-to-energy facilities and avoided approximately 9 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions in the year ended december 31, 2016 . in addition to minimizing our impact on the environment our landfill-free program and total waste reduction commitments generate revenue from the sale of production by-products, reduce our use of material, reduce our carbon footprint and help to reduce the risks and financial liabilities associated with waste disposal. we continue to search for ways to increase our use of renewable energy and improve our energy efficiency and work to drive growth and scale of renewables. we have committed to meeting the electricity needs of our operations worldwide with renewable energy by 2050. at december 31, 2016 we had implemented projects globally that had increased our total renewable energy capacity to over 167 megawatts. in 2016 we also met the epa energy star challenge for industry (epa challenge) at 12 of our sites globally by reducing energy intensity an average of 18% at these sites. to meet the epa challenge industrial sites must reduce energy intensity by 10% in five years or fewer. two of the sites achieved the goal for the first time, bringing the total number of gm-owned sites to have met the epa challenge to 75, with many sites achieving the goal multiple times. these efforts minimize our utility expenses and are part of our approach to addressing climate change through setting a greenhouse gas emissions reduction target, collecting accurate data, following our business plan and publicly reporting progress against our target. chemical regulations we continually monitor the implementation of chemical regulations to maintain compliance and evaluate their effect on our business, suppliers and the automotive industry. governmental agencies in both the u.s. and canada continue to introduce new regulations and legislation related to the selection and use of chemicals or substances of concern by mandating broad prohibitions, green chemistry, life cycle analysis and product stewardship initiatives. these initiatives give broad regulatory authority to ban or restrict the use of certain chemical substances and potentially affect automobile manufacturers' responsibilities for vehicle components at the end of a vehicle's life, as well as chemical selection for product development and manufacturing. chemical restrictions in canada are progressing rapidly as a result of environment canada's chemical management plan to assess existing substances and implement risk management controls on any chemical deemed toxic. in june 2016, the u.s. enacted the chemical safety for the 21 st century act that grants the epa more authority to regulate and ban chemicals from use in the u.s. and is expected to increase the level of regulation of chemicals in vehicles. these emerging regulations will potentially lead to increases in costs and supply chain complexity. we believe that we are materially in compliance with substantially all of these requirements or expect to be materially in compliance by the required date. in 2007 the european union implemented its regulatory requirements, the eu reach regulation among others, to register, evaluate, authorize and restrict the use of chemical substances. this regulation requires chemical substances manufactured in or imported into the european union to be registered with the european chemicals agency before 2018. under this regulation, substances of very high concern may either require authorization for further use or may be restricted in the future. this could potentially increase the cost of certain alternative substances that are used to manufacture vehicles and parts, or result in a supply chain disruption when a substance is no longer available to meet production timelines. our research and development initiatives may be used to address future requirements. we believe that we are materially in compliance with substantially all of these requirements or expect to be materially in compliance by the required date. there are various regulations in china stipulating the requirements for chemical management. among other things, these regulations catalogue and restrict the use and the import and export of various chemical substances. the failure of our joint venture partners or our suppliers to comply with these regulations could disrupt production in china or prevent our joint venture partners from selling the affected products in the china market. safety in the u.s. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 prohibits the sale of any new vehicle or equipment in the u.s. that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by the national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa). if we or nhtsa determine that either a vehicle or vehicle equipment does not comply with a safety standard or if a vehicle defect creates an unreasonable safety risk the manufacturer is required to notify owners and provide a remedy. we are required to report certain information relating to certain customer complaints, warranty claims, field reports and notices and claims involving property damage, injuries and fatalities in the u.s. and claims involving fatalities outside the u.s. we are also required to report certain information concerning safety recalls and other safety campaigns outside the u.s. 8 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries outside the u.s. safety standards and recall regulations often have the same purpose as the u.s. standards but may differ in their requirements and test procedures, adding complexity to regulatory compliance. automotive financing - gm financial gm financial is our global captive automotive finance company and our global provider of automobile finance solutions. gm financial conducts its business in north america, europe, south america and through a joint venture in china. gm financial provides retail loan and lease lending across the credit spectrum. additionally gm financial offers commercial products to dealers that include new and used vehicle inventory financing, inventory insurance, working capital, capital improvement loans, and storage center financing. in north america gm financial's retail automobile finance programs include prime and sub-prime lending and full credit spectrum leasing. the sub-prime lending program is primarily offered to consumers with fico scores less than 620 who have limited access to automobile financing through banks and credit unions and is expected to sustain a higher level of credit losses than prime lending. the leasing product is offered through our franchised dealers and primarily targets prime consumers leasing new vehicles. gm financial has expanded its leasing, near prime and prime lending programs through our franchised dealers, and as a result, leasing and prime lending have become a larger percentage of originations and the retail portfolio balance. internationally gm financial's retail automobile finance programs focus on prime quality financing through loan and lease products. generally gm financial seeks to fund its operations in each country through local sources to minimize currency and country risk. gm financial primarily finances its loan, lease and commercial origination volume through the use of secured and unsecured credit facilities, through securitization transactions where such markets are developed and through the issuance of unsecured debt in public markets including accepting deposits from retail banking customers in germany. employees at december 31, 2016 we employed 135,000 ( 60% ) hourly employees and 90,000 ( 40% ) salaried employees. at december 31, 2016 55,000 ( 53% ) of our u.s. employees were represented by unions, a majority of which were represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agriculture implement workers of america (uaw). the following table summarizes worldwide employment (in thousands): december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 gmna 124 115 110 gme 38 36 37 gmio 32 32 33 gmsa 22 24 29 gm financial 9 8 7 total worldwide 225 215 216 u.s. - salaried 50 45 40 u.s. - hourly 55 52 51 executive officers of the registrant as of february 7, 2017 the names and ages of our executive officers and their positions with gm are as follows: 9 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries name (age) present gm position (effective date) positions held during the past five years (effective date) mary t. barra (55) chairman &amp; chief executive officer (2016) chief executive officer and member of the board of directors (2014) executive vice president, global product development, purchasing &amp; supply chain (2013) senior vice president, global product development (2011) daniel ammann (44) president (2014) executive vice president &amp; chief financial officer (2013) senior vice president &amp; chief financial officer (2011) alan s. batey (53) executive vice president &amp; president, north america (2014) senior vice president, global chevrolet and brand chief and u.s. sales and marketing (2013) gm vice president, u.s. sales and service, and interim gm chief marketing officer (2012) vice president, u.s. chevrolet sales and service (2010) alicia boler-davis (47) executive vice president, global manufacturing (2016) senior vice president, global connected customer experience (2014) vice president, global quality and u.s. customer experience (2012) carel johannes de nysschen (56) executive vice president &amp; president, cadillac (2014) infiniti motor company, president (2012) audi of america, inc., president (2004) barry l. engle (53) executive vice president &amp; president, south america (2015) agility fuel systems, ceo (2011) stefan jacoby (58) executive vice president &amp; president, gm international (2013) volvo car corporation - global chief executive officer and president (2010) craig b. glidden (59) executive vice president &amp; general counsel (2015) lyondellbasell, executive vice president and chief legal officer (2009) karl-thomas neumann (55) executive vice president &amp; president, europe and chairman of the management board of opel group gmbh (2013) ceo, opel group gmbh &amp; president, gm europe (2013) volkswagen group china - chief executive officer and president (2010) john j. quattrone (64) senior vice president, global human resources (2014) vp of human resources, global product development &amp; global purchasing &amp; supply chain / corporate strategy, business development &amp; global planning &amp; program organizations (2009) mark l. reuss (53) executive vice president, global product development, purchasing &amp; supply chain (2014) executive vice president &amp; president, north america (2013) gm vice president &amp; president, north america (2009) charles k. stevens, iii (57) executive vice president &amp; chief financial officer (2014) chief financial officer, gm north america (2010) interim chief financial officer, gm south america (2011) matthew tsien (56) executive vice president &amp; president, gm china (2014) gm consolidated international operations vice president, planning, program management, &amp; strategic alliances china (2012) executive vice president, saic gm wuling (2009) thomas s. timko (48) vice president, controller &amp; chief accounting officer (2013) applied materials inc. - corporate vice president, chief accounting officer, and corporate controller (2010) there are no family relationships between any of the officers named above and there is no arrangement or understanding between any of the officers named above and any other person pursuant to which he or she was selected as an officer. each of the officers named above was elected by the board of directors to hold office until the next annual election of officers and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. the board of directors elects the officers immediately following each annual meeting of the stockholders and may appoint other officers between annual meetings. segment reporting data operating segment data and principal geographic area data for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 are summarized in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements. website access to our reports our internet website address is www.gm.com. in addition to the information about us and our subsidiaries contained in this 2016 form 10-k information about us can be found on our website including information on our corporate governance principles and practices. our investor relations website at www.gm.com/investors contains a significant amount of information about us, including financial and other information for investors. we encourage investors to visit our website, 10 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries as we frequently update and post new information about our company on our website and it is possible that this information could be deemed to be material information. our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this 2016 form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy the materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. additionally the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. the address of the sec's website is www.sec.gov. * * * * * * * item 1a. risk factors we face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. our business and the results of our operations could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. the risks described below are not the only risks facing our operations. risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. if we do not deliver new products, services and customer experiences in response to new participants in the automotive industry, our business could suffer. we believe that the automotive industry will experience significant and continued change in the coming years. in addition to our traditional competitors, we must also be responsive to the entrance of non-traditional participants in the automotive industry. these non-traditional participants may seek to disrupt the historic business model of the industry through the introduction of new technologies, new products or services, new business models or new methods of travel. it is strategically significant that we lead the technological disruption occurring in our industry. as our business evolves, the pressure to innovate will encompass a wider range of products and services, including products and services that may be outside of our historically core business, such as autonomous vehicles, car- and ride-sharing and transportation as a service. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond to new kinds of technological innovations, market developments and changing customer needs, our sales, profitability and long-term competitiveness may be harmed. our ability to maintain profitability is dependent upon our ability to fund and introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers. we operate in a very competitive industry with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models designed to meet rapidly evolving consumer expectations. producing new and improved vehicle models competitively and preserving our reputation for designing, building and selling high quality cars and trucks is critical to our long-term profitability. we will launch a substantial number of new vehicles in 2017 . successful launches of our new vehicles are critical to our short-term profitability. in addition, our growth strategies require us to make significant investment in our brands to appeal to new markets. our long-term profitability depends upon successfully creating and funding technological innovations in design, engineering and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment and the ability to retain and recruit talent. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by our suppliers. although we will seek to obtain intellectual property protection for our innovations to protect our competitive position, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. there can be no assurance that advances in technology will occur in a timely or feasible way, or that others will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or that we will acquire technologies on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. it generally takes two years or more to design and develop a new vehicle, and a number of factors may lengthen that time period. because of this product development cycle and the various elements that may contribute to consumers' acceptance of new vehicle designs, including competitors' product introductions, technological innovations, fuel prices, general economic conditions and changes in styling preferences, an initial product concept or design may not result in a vehicle that generates sales in sufficient quantities and at high enough prices to be profitable. our high proportion of fixed costs, both due to our significant investment in property, plant and equipment as well as other requirements of our collective bargaining agreements, which limit our flexibility to adjust personnel costs to changes in demands for our products, may further exacerbate the risks associated with incorrectly assessing demand for our vehicles. 11 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our profitability is dependent upon the success of full-size pick-up trucks and suvs. while we offer a balanced and complete portfolio of small, mid-size and large cars, crossovers, sport utility vehicles (suvs) and trucks, we generally recognize higher profit margins on our full-size pick-up trucks and suvs. our success is dependent upon consumer preferences and our ability to sell higher margin vehicles in sufficient volumes. any shift in consumer preferences toward smaller, more fuel efficient vehicles, whether as a result of increases in the price of oil or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of global political instability or other reasons, could weaken the demand for our higher margin full-size pick-up trucks and suvs. our business is highly dependent upon global automobile market sales volume, which can be volatile. our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, changes to which can have a disproportionately large effect on our profitability. a number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, levels of unemployment, availability of affordable financing, fluctuations in the cost of fuel, consumer confidence, political unrest and global economic conditions. we cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty. our business in china is subject to aggressive competition. maintaining a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. the automotive market in china is highly competitive with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. as the size of the chinese market continues to increase we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. the international scale and footprint of our operations exposes us to additional risks. we manufacture, sell and service products globally and rely upon a global supply chain to deliver the raw materials, components, systems and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our global operations subject us to extensive domestic and foreign regulations and expose us to a variety of domestic and foreign political, economic and other risks, including: changes in foreign or domestic government leadership; changes in foreign or domestic laws or regulations impacting our overall business model or restricting our ability to manufacture, purchase or sell products, and political pressures to change any aspect of our business model or practices and source raw materials, components, systems and parts on competitive terms in a manner consistent with our current practice; changes in domestic or foreign tax laws; economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the u.s. and china, more detailed inspections, new or higher tariffs, for example, on products imported from mexico into the u.s.; new barriers to entry or domestic preference procurement requirements, or changes to or withdrawals from free trade agreements; changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as china; significant changes in conditions in the countries in which we operate with the effect of competition from new market entrants and in the united kingdom (u.k.) with passage of a referendum to discontinue membership in the european union; differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety; impact of compliance with u.s. and other foreign countries' export controls and economic sanctions; liabilities resulting from u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to the foreign corrupt practices act and certain other anti-corruption laws; differing labor regulations and union relationships; and difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations. a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. many of our operations, primarily in china, are carried out by joint ventures. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures we are required to foster our relationships with our co-owners as well as promote the overall success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes or relationships deteriorate, our success in the joint venture may be materially adversely affected. the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, therefore we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. in addition, because we share ownership and management with one or more parties, we may have limited control over the actions of a joint venture, particularly when we own a minority interest. as a result, we may be unable to prevent misconduct or other violations of applicable laws by a joint venture. moreover, a joint venture may not follow the same requirements regarding compliance, internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. to the extent another party makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control issues arise within the joint venture, we may have to take responsive or other action or we may be subject to penalties, fines or other related actions for these activities. we are subject to extensive laws, governmental regulations and policies, including those regarding fuel economy and emissions controls, that can significantly increase our costs and affect how we do business. we are significantly affected by governmental 12 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. meeting or exceeding many of these regulations is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where standards may not be harmonized across jurisdictions, a significant challenge with respect to mandated emissions and fuel economy standards. we anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product portfolio, may increase significantly in the future. these government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and given the uncertainty surrounding enforcement and regulatory definitions, may result in substantial costs, including civil or criminal penalties. in addition, an evolving but un-harmonized regulatory framework may limit or dictate the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. refer to the "environmental and regulatory matters" section of item 1. business for further information on these regulatory requirements. we also expect that manufacturers will continue to be subject to increased scrutiny from regulators globally. for example, in germany, the ministry of transportation and the kraftfahrt-bundesamt have requested the participation of a number of automotive manufacturers, including our german subsidiary, in continuing discussions on emissions control issues and have also requested, from time to time, written responses from our subsidiary on the subject. our german subsidiary has participated in these discussions and has provided the requested responses to inquiries concerning nitrogen oxide emission control systems of its diesel engines. in addition, the german and the eu parliaments have instigated inquiry commissions into government agencies' oversight of emissions enforcement, requesting our german subsidiary's participation. at the same time, the german government has initiated further industry-wide inquiries about co 2 emissions. this scrutiny, regulatory changes or novel interpretations of current regulations, as well as increased enforcement has led to and may result in further increased testing and re-testing of our vehicles and analysis of their emissions control systems, which could lead to increased costs, penalties, negative publicity or reputational impact, and recall activity if regulators determine that emission levels and required regulatory compliance should be based on either a wider spectrum of driving conditions for future testing parameters or stricter or novel interpretations and consequent enforcement of existing requirements. no assurance can be given that the ultimate outcome of any potential investigations or increased testing resulting from this scrutiny would not materially and adversely affect us. we expect that to comply with fuel economy and emission control requirements we will be required to sell a significant volume of hybrid electric vehicles, as well as develop and implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. there is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. alternative compliance measures may not be sufficiently available in the marketplace to meet volume driven compliance requirements. in the current uncertain regulatory framework, environmental liabilities for which we may be responsible and that are not reasonably estimable could be substantial. alleged violations of safety or emissions standards could result in legal proceedings, the recall of one or more of our products, negotiated remedial actions, fines, restricted product offerings or a combination of any of those items. any of these actions could have substantial adverse effects on our operations including facility idling, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue. we could be materially adversely affected by a negative outcome in unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or other legal proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings involving various issues, including product liability lawsuits, stockholder litigation and governmental investigations, such as the legal proceedings related to the ignition switch recall. such legal proceedings could in the future result in the imposition of damages, including punitive damages, substantial fines, civil lawsuits and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, modification of business practices, equitable remedies and other sanctions against us or our personnel as well as significant legal and other costs. for a further discussion of these matters refer to note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. if, in the discretion of the u.s. attorney's office for the southern district of new york (the office), we do not comply with the terms of the deferred prosecution agreement (the dpa), the office may prosecute us for charges alleged by the office including those relating to faulty ignition switches. on september 17, 2015 we announced that we entered into the dpa with the office regarding its investigation of the events leading up to certain recalls announced in february and march of 2014 relating to faulty ignition switches. under the dpa, we consented to, among other things, the filing of a two-count information (the information) in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york charging gm with a scheme to conceal material facts from a government regulator and wire fraud. we pled not guilty to the charges alleged in the information. the dpa further provides that, in the event the office determines during the period of deferral of prosecution (or any extensions thereof) that we have violated any provision of the dpa, including violating any u.s. federal law or our obligation to cooperate with and assist the independent monitor, the office may, in its discretion, either prosecute us on the charges alleged in the information or impose an extension of the period of deferral of prosecution of up to one additional year. under such circumstance, the office would be permitted to rely 13 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries upon the admissions we made in the dpa and would benefit from our waiver of certain procedural and evidentiary defenses. such a criminal prosecution could subject us to penalties. the costs and effect on our reputation of product safety recalls could materially adversely affect our business. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy certain product safety defects through recall campaigns. under these standards, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties or may incur various costs, including significant costs for free repairs. at present, the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. we currently source a variety of systems, components, raw materials and parts, including but not limited to air bag inflators, from third parties. from time to time these items may have performance or quality issues that could harm our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. for example, we are currently conducting recalls for certain takata corporation (takata) air bag inflators used in some of our prior model year vehicles. we are continuing to assess the situation. further recalls, if any, that may be required to remediate takata air bag inflators in our vehicles could have a material impact on our business. in addition, product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. conversely not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation, potentially expose us to significant monetary penalties, and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above. any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule. our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, raw materials and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our use of just-in-time manufacturing processes allows us to maintain minimal inventory quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts. as a result our ability to maintain production is dependent upon our suppliers delivering sufficient quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts on time to meet our production schedules. in some instances we purchase systems, components, raw materials and parts from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. financial difficulties or solvency problems with our suppliers, including takata, which may be exacerbated by the cost of remediating quality issues with these items, could lead to uncertainty in our supply chain or cause supply disruptions for us which could, in turn, disrupt our operations, including production of certain of our higher margin vehicles. where we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components, raw materials or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules or suspend production entirely. we are dependent on our manufacturing facilities around the world. we assemble vehicles at various facilities around the world. these facilities are typically designed to produce particular models for particular geographic markets. no single facility is designed to manufacture our full range of vehicles. in some cases certain facilities produce products that disproportionately contribute a greater degree to our profitability than others. should these or other facilities become unavailable either temporarily or permanently for any number of reasons, including labor disruptions, the inability to manufacture vehicles there may result in harm to our reputation, increased costs, lower revenues and the loss of customers. we may not be able to easily shift production of vehicles at an inoperable facility to other facilities or to make up for lost production. any new facility needed to replace an inoperable manufacturing facility would need to comply with the necessary regulatory requirements, need to satisfy our specialized manufacturing requirements and require specialized equipment. even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available or any losses which may be excluded under our insurance policies. we operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. the global automotive industry is highly competitive and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering marketing incentives or reducing vehicle prices. our competitors may also seek to benefit from economies of scale by consolidating or entering into other strategic agreements such as alliances intended to enhance their competitiveness. domestic manufacturers in lower cost countries, such as china and india, have become competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention to export their products to established markets as a low cost alternative to established entry-level automobiles. in addition, foreign governments may decide to implement tax and other policies that favor their domestic manufacturers at the expense of international manufacturers, including gm and its joint venture partners. these actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results, and present a significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle. 14 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries we may continue to restructure or divest our operations in various countries, but we may not succeed in doing so. we face difficult market and operating conditions in certain parts of the world that may require us to restructure or rationalize these operations, which may result in impairments. in many countries across our regions we have experienced challenges in our operations and continue to strategically assess the manner in which we operate in certain countries. as we continue to assess our performance throughout our regions, additional restructuring and rationalization actions may be required and may be material. our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement operating effectiveness initiatives throughout our automotive operations. we are continuing to implement a number of operating effectiveness initiatives to improve productivity and reduce costs. our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these initiatives throughout our automotive operations. while some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others, such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our costs. reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering and other expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety and customer satisfaction of our vehicles and to continue to innovate our technology and product offerings to meet changing customer needs and market developments are likely to increase. security breaches and other disruptions to our vehicles, information technology networks and systems could interfere with the safety of our customers or our operations and could compromise the confidentiality of private customer data or our proprietary information. we rely upon information technology networks and systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of vehicle or business processes and activities. additionally we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, proprietary business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. the secure operation of these information technology networks and in-vehicle systems, and the processing and maintenance of this information, is critical to our business operations and strategy. despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and systems and in-vehicle systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to our networks and systems or computer viruses. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. these occurrences could also impact vehicle safety. we have been the target of these types of attacks in the past and future attacks are likely to occur. if successful, these types of attacks on our network or systems, including in-vehicle systems and mobile devices, or service failures could result in, among other things, the loss of proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our business operations and damage to our reputation. in addition, any such access, disruption, technological failures, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. we rely on gm financial to provide financial services to our dealers and customers in a majority of the markets in which we sell vehicles. gm financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and financing to retail consumers and commercial lending to our dealers to support additional sales of our vehicles. we rely on gm financial in north america, europe, south america and china to support leasing and sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring vehicle financing and also to provide commercial lending to our dealers. any reduction in gm financial's ability to provide such financial services would negatively affect our efforts to support additional sales of our vehicles and expand our market penetration among consumers and dealers. as an entity operating in the financial services sector, gm financial is required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations that may be costly to adhere to and may affect our consolidated operating results. compliance with these laws and regulations requires that gm financial maintain forms, processes, procedures, controls and the infrastructure to support these requirements and these laws and regulations often create operational constraints both on gm financial's ability to implement servicing procedures and on pricing. laws in the financial services industry are designed primarily for the protection of consumers. the failure to comply with these laws could result in significant statutory civil and criminal penalties, monetary damages, attorneys' fees and costs, possible revocation of licenses and damage to reputation, brand and valued customer relationships. the primary factors that could adversely affect gm financial's business and operations and reduce its ability to provide financing services at competitive rates include the availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to fund its retail and commercial finance activities; its ability to access a variety of financing sources including the asset-backed securities market and other secured 15 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries and unsecured debt markets; the performance of loans and leases in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; wholesale auction values of used vehicles; higher than expected vehicle return rates and the residual value performance on vehicles gm financial leases to customers; fluctuations in interest rates and currencies; and changes to regulation, supervision and licensing across various jurisdictions, including new regulations or sanctions imposed in the u.s. by the department of justice, sec and consumer financial protection bureau. our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, changes in laws or regulations, changes in assumptions or investments that do not achieve adequate returns. our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. a detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is disclosed in note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. there are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market liquidity in particular asset classes and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. our future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit pension plans depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, assuming other factors are held constant. our potential funding requirements are described in note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. factors which affect future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-u.s. plans. certain plans outside the u.s. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our non-u.s. plans, we could be required to contribute more funds. * * * * * * * quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk automotive the overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the chief financial officer with support from the financial risk council which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. the financial risk council comprises members of our management and functions under the oversight of the audit committee and finance committee of the board of directors. the audit committee and finance committee assist and guide the board of 40 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries directors in its oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. a risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the financial risk council. our financial risk management policy is designed to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures. the following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. the models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates and interest rate yield curves. for options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect of market shifts. there are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, due primarily to the assumption that interest rates change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. in addition the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency pairs or offsetting long-short positions in currency pairs which may significantly reduce the potential loss in value. foreign currency exchange rate risk we have foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of our operations. at december 31, 2016 our most significant foreign currency exposures were the euro/british pound, u.s. dollar/canadian dollar, euro/u.s. dollar, u.s. dollar/mexican peso, euro/south korean won and u.s. dollar/south korean won. derivative instruments such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. at december 31, 2016 such contracts had remaining maturities of up to 12 months. at december 31, 2016 and 2015 the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $1.0 billion and $0.8 billion . these amounts are calculated utilizing a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives, embedded derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and exclude the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would have been $0.2 billion and $0.3 billion at december 31, 2016 and 2015 . we are exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial condition. the following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement losses: years ended december 31, 2016 2015 translation losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 176 $ 302 transaction and remeasurement losses recorded in earnings $ 345 $ 813 interest rate risk we are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial instruments, primarily debt, capital lease obligations and certain marketable securities. at december 31, 2016 and 2015 we did not have any interest rate swap positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations. at december 31, 2016 and 2015 the fair value liability of debt and capital leases was $11.6 billion and $9.1 billion . the potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would have been $0.5 billion and $0.4 billion at december 31, 2016 and 2015 . at december 31, 2016 and 2015 we had marketable securities of $11.8 billion and $7.6 billion classified as available-for-sale and an insignificant amount and $0.6 billion classified as trading. the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have had an insignificant effect at december 31, 2016 and 2015 . automotive financing - gm financial interest rate risk fluctuations in market interest rates can affect gm financial's gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between interest earned on finance receivables and interest paid on debt. typically retail finance receivables purchased by gm financial bear fixed interest rates and are funded by variable or fixed rate debt. commercial finance receivables originated by gm financial bear variable interest rates and are funded by variable rate debt. the variable rate debt is subject to adjustments to reflect 41 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries prevailing market interest rates. to help mitigate interest rate risk or mismatched funding, gm financial may employ hedging strategies to lock in the interest rate spread. fixed interest rate receivables purchased by gm financial may be pledged to secure borrowings under its credit facilities. amounts borrowed under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to protect the interest rate spread within each credit facility, gm financial is contractually required to enter into interest rate cap agreements in connection with borrowings under its credit facilities. in gm financial's securitization transactions it can transfer fixed rate finance receivables to securitization trusts that, in turn, sell either fixed rate or floating rate securities to investors. derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps and caps, are used to manage the gross interest rate spread on the floating rate transactions. gm financial had interest rate swaps and caps in asset positions with notional amounts of $22.7 billion and $10.4 billion and in liability positions with notional amounts of $ 29.5 billion and $ 13.9 billion at december 31, 2016 and 2015 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments in asset positions was insignificant and in liability positions was $341 million and insignificant at december 31, 2016 and 2015. the following table summarizes gm financial's interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, excluding derivatives, by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at december 31, 2016 : 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter fair value assets retail finance receivables principal amounts $ 12,978 $ 9,169 $ 5,866 $ 3,189 $ 1,425 $ 559 $ 32,067 weighted-average annual percentage rate 8.26 % 8.17 % 8.10 % 8.05 % 8.28 % 10.51 % commercial finance receivables principal amounts $ 10,395 $ 109 $ 103 $ 96 $ 157 $ 136 $ 10,672 weighted-average annual percentage rate 5.06 % 4.13 % 4.14 % 4.16 % 4.20 % 4.14 % liabilities secured debt: credit facilities principal amounts $ 8,582 $ 873 $ 314 $ 41 $ 7 $ $ 9,812 weighted-average interest rate 2.60 % 5.56 % 5.78 % 9.48 % 8.65 % % securitization notes principal amounts $ 12,686 $ 10,700 $ 4,566 $ 1,223 $ 341 $ $ 29,545 weighted-average interest rate 1.94 % 2.10 % 2.38 % 2.85 % 2.80 % % unsecured debt: senior notes principal amounts $ 2,854 $ 3,086 $ 5,877 $ 4,650 $ 4,750 $ 7,791 $ 29,182 weighted-average interest rate 3.48 % 3.08 % 2.65 % 3.02 % 3.83 % 3.81 % credit facilities and other unsecured debt principal amounts $ 4,474 $ 1,081 $ 474 $ $ $ $ 6,038 weighted-average interest rate 6.23 % 6.13 % 3.03 % % % % the impact of gm financial's discount rate, prepayment and credit loss assumptions is consistent with assumptions applied to interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities reported at december 31, 2015. gm financial estimates the realization of finance receivables in future periods using discount rate, prepayment and credit loss assumptions similar to its historical experience. credit facilities and securitization notes payable amounts have been classified based on expected payoff. senior notes principal amounts have been classified based on maturity. foreign currency exchange rate risk gm financial is exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect gm financial's financial condition. 42 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries gm financial primarily finances its receivables and leased assets with debt in the same currency. when a different currency is used gm financial may use foreign currency swaps to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local currency of the receivables and lease assets to minimize any impact to earnings. gm financial had foreign currency swaps in asset positions with notional amounts of $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion and in liability positions with notional amounts of $910 million and an insignificant amount at december 31, 2016 and 2015 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. the following table summarizes gm financial's foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement losses: years ended december 31, 2016 2015 translation losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 144 $ 669 transaction and remeasurement losses recorded in earnings $ 13 $ 16 * * * * * * * 43 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm general motors company, its directors, and stockholders: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of general motors company and subsidiaries (the "company") as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and equity for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2016. we also have audited the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. the company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states). those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audits provides a reasonable basis for our opinions. a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of general motors company and subsidiaries as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2016, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. also, in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016, based on the criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp detroit, michigan february 7, 2017 44 table of contents general motors company and subsidiariesrisk factors 10 risk factors for further discussion of these risks. combined purchases from our two largest suppliers have been approximately 12% of our total purchases in each of the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . environmental and regulatory matters automotive emissions control we are subject to laws and regulations that require us to control automotive emissions, including vehicle exhaust emission standards, vehicle evaporative emission standards and onboard diagnostic (obd) system requirements. advanced obd systems are used to identify and diagnose problems with emission control systems. problems detected by the obd system and other in-use compliance monitoring activities may increase warranty costs and the likelihood of recall. emission and obd requirements have become more stringent as a result of lower emission standards and new diagnostic requirements which have come into force in many markets around the world driven by policy priorities such as air quality, energy security and climate change, often with very little harmonization of the regulations. while we believe all of our products are designed and manufactured 5 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries in material compliance with substantially all vehicle emissions requirements, regulatory authorities may conduct ongoing evaluations of the emissions compliance of products from all manufacturers. this includes vehicle emissions testing, including co 2 and nitrogen oxide emissions testing, and review of emission control designs and strategies. the u.s. federal government imposes stringent emission control requirements on vehicles sold in the u.s., and various state governments impose additional emission requirements established by california. canada's federal government vehicle emission requirements are generally aligned with the u.s. federal requirements. each model year we must obtain certification for each test group that our vehicles will meet emission requirements from the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) before we can sell vehicles in the u.s. and canada, and from the california air resources board (carb) before we can sell vehicles in california and other states that have adopted the california emissions requirements. carb's latest emission requirements include more stringent exhaust emission and evaporative emission standards including an increase in zevs which must be offered for sale in california. carb has adopted 2018 model year and later requirements for increasing volumes of zevs to achieve ghg as well as criteria pollutant emission reductions to help achieve the state's long-term ghg reduction goals. the canadian province of quebec also plans to adopt zev requirements starting with the 2018 model year largely based on california program requirements. there is a possibility that additional jurisdictions could adopt zev requirements in the future. the epa has adopted similar exhaust emission and evaporative emission standards which began a multi-year phase-in with the 2017 model year, but do not include zev requirements. these new requirements will also increase the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle's emission performance. the clean air act permits states that have areas with air quality compliance issues to adopt the california emission standards in lieu of the federal requirements. thirteen states currently have these standards in effect and 10 of these 13 states have adopted the zev requirements. china implemented the china 5 emission standard nationwide at the beginning of 2017. china 5 is more stringent than the previous program on all levels including overall emission requirements and the time and mileage period for which vehicles need to meet china 5 level performance. china will implement a unique china 6 emission standard that combines elements of both european and u.s. standards, includes more stringent emission requirements and increases the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle's emission performance. nationwide implementation for new registrations is expected in july 2020 for china 6a and july 2023 for the more stringent china 6b standard. however, localities can pull ahead china 6 requirements if certain criteria are met. some cities may implement china 6 as early as january 2019. in south america certain countries follow the u.s. test procedures, standards and obd requirements and others follow the european union test procedures, standards and obd requirements with different levels of stringency. brazil implemented national l6 standards for light diesel vehicles in 2012 and obd installation for light diesel vehicles in 2015. l6 standards for light gasoline vehicles were implemented in 2015 for all models. as a result of the sale of the opel/vauxhall business, gm's vehicle presence in europe will be smaller, but gm may be affected by actions taken by regulators related to products sold before the sale of the opel/vauxhall business and future products sold by gm in europe. for example, in germany, a number of automotive manufacturers, including our former german subsidiary, have participated in continuing discussions with german and european union authorities concerning emissions control systems. in the european union, increased scrutiny of compliance with emissions standards may result in changes to these standards, including implementation of real world driving emissions (rde) tests, as well as stricter interpretations or redefinition of these standards and more rigorous enforcement. this may lead to increased costs, penalties, and lack of certainty related to product portfolio planning, negative publicity or reputation impact for us. in the long-term, we expect that the european commission will continue devising regulatory requirements on the emission test cycle, rde, low temperature testing, fuel evaporation and obd. automotive fuel economy in the u.s., nhtsa promulgates and enforces corporate average fuel economy (cafe) standards for three separate fleets: domestically produced cars, imported cars and light-duty trucks. manufacturers are subject to substantial civil penalties if they fail to meet the applicable cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding five model years and expected credits for the three succeeding model years. in addition to federal cafe reporting, the epa promulgates and enforces ghg emission standards, which are effectively fuel economy standards because the majority of vehicle ghg emissions are the result of fuel combustion. in addition, carb has asserted the right to promulgate and enforce its own state ghg standards for motor vehicles, and other states have asserted the right to adopt the california standards. however, carb has agreed that compliance with the federal epa light duty ghg program is deemed to be in compliance with the california standards through the 2025 model year. 6 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries china has two fuel economy requirements for passenger vehicles: an individual vehicle pass-fail type approval requirement and a fleet average fuel consumption requirement. the current china phase 4 fleet fuel consumption requirement is effective from 2016-2020. china phase 4 is based on curb weight with full compliance to 5.0l/100 km required by 2020. china phase 4 has continued subsidies for plug-in hybrid, battery electric and fuel cell vehicles. china phase 5 is currently being developed with a planned start in 2021 with full compliance to 4.0l/100km required by 2025. china recently announced the details of the new energy vehicle mandate. this will require passenger car manufacturers to produce a certain volume of plug-in hybrid, battery electric and fuel cells vehicles to generate "credits" equivalent to 10% in 2019 and 12% in 2020. the number of credits per car is based on the level of e-range and energy efficiency. regulators in other jurisdictions have already adopted or are developing fuel economy or carbon dioxide regulations. if regulators in these jurisdictions seek to impose and enforce emission standards that are misaligned with market conditions, we may be forced to take various actions to increase market support programs for more fuel-efficient vehicles and curtail production of certain high-performance cars, trucks and sport utility vehicles (suvs) in order to achieve compliance. we regularly evaluate our current and future product plans and strategies for compliance with fuel economy and ghg regulations. industrial environmental control our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws including those regulating air emissions, water discharge, waste management and environmental cleanup. certain environmental statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. under certain circumstances these laws impose joint and several liability as well as liability for related damages to natural resources. to mitigate the effects of our worldwide operations on the environment, we are converting as many of our worldwide operations as possible to landfill-free operations which reduces ghg emissions associated with waste disposal. at december 31, 2017 , 80 (or approximately 50%) of our manufacturing operations were landfill-free. additionally, 63 of our non-manufacturing operations are landfill-free. at our landfill-free manufacturing operations approximately 95% of waste materials are composted, reused, or recycled and approximately 4% are converted to energy at waste-to-energy facilities. in 2017 we estimate that our waste reduction program diverted 1.5 million metric tons of waste from landfill, resulting in approximately 6.6 million metric tons of ghg emissions avoided in global manufacturing operations, including construction, demolition and remediation wastes. in addition to minimizing our impact on the environment, our landfill-free program and total waste reduction commitments generate revenue from the sale of production by-products, reduce our use of material, reduce our carbon footprint and help to reduce the risks and financial liabilities associated with waste disposal. we continue to search for ways to increase our use of renewable energy and improve our energy efficiency and work to drive growth and scale of renewables. we have committed to meeting the electricity needs of our operations worldwide with renewable energy by 2050. at december 31, 2017 we had implemented projects or signed renewable energy contracts globally that had increased our total renewable energy capacity to over 400 megawatts. in 2017 gm executed two 100 megawatt wind power purchase agreements to match our ohio and indiana manufacturing plant load when each of these projects come online in 2018. we continue to seek opportunities for a diversified renewable energy portfolio including wind, solar, and landfill gas. in 2017 energy star certified three of our assembly plants and 17 buildings for superior energy management. we also met the epa energy star challenge for industry (epa challenge) at eight additional sites globally by reducing energy intensity an average of 18% at these sites. to meet the epa challenge, industrial sites must reduce energy intensity by 10% within a five year period. in total 71 gm-owned sites have met the epa challenge, with many sites achieving the goal multiple times. these efforts minimize our utility expenses and are part of our approach to addressing climate change through setting a ghg emissions reduction target, collecting accurate data, following our business plan and publicly reporting progress against our target. chemical regulations we continually monitor the implementation of chemical regulations to maintain compliance and evaluate their effect on our business, suppliers and the automotive industry. globally, governmental agencies continue to introduce new legislation and regulations related to the selection and use of chemicals by mandating broad prohibitions or restrictions and implementing green chemistry, life cycle analysis and product stewardship initiatives. these initiatives give broad regulatory authority to ban or restrict the use of certain chemical substances and potentially affect automobile manufacturers' responsibilities for vehicle components at the end of a vehicle's life, as well as chemical selection for product development and manufacturing. global treaties and initiatives such as the stockholm, basel and rotterdam conventions on chemicals and waste and the minamata convention on mercury, are driving chemical regulations across signatory countries. in addition, more global jurisdictions are establishing substance standards with regard to vehicle interior air quality. 7 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries chemical regulations are increasing in north america. in june 2016, the u.s. enacted the chemical safety for the 21 st century act that grants the epa increased authority to regulate and restrict chemical use in the u.s. and is expected to increase the level of regulation of chemicals in vehicles. chemical restrictions in canada continue to progress rapidly as a result of environment canada's chemical management plan to assess existing substances and implement risk management controls on any chemical deemed toxic. china prohibits the use of several chemical substances in vehicles. there are also various regulations in china stipulating the requirements for chemical management. among other things, these regulations catalogue and restrict the use and the import and export of various chemical substances. the failure of our joint venture partners or our suppliers to comply with these regulations could disrupt production in china or prevent our joint venture partners from selling the affected products in the china market. these emerging regulations will potentially lead to increases in costs and supply chain complexity. we believe that we are materially in compliance with substantially all of these requirements or expect to be materially in compliance by the required dates. safety in the u.s. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 prohibits the sale of any new vehicle or equipment in the u.s. that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by the nhtsa. if we or nhtsa determine that either a vehicle or vehicle equipment does not comply with a safety standard or if a vehicle defect creates an unreasonable safety risk the manufacturer is required to notify owners and provide a remedy. we are required to report certain information relating to certain customer complaints, warranty claims, field reports and notices and claims involving property damage, injuries and fatalities in the u.s. and claims involving fatalities outside the u.s. we are also required to report certain information concerning safety recalls and other safety campaigns outside the u.s. outside the u.s. safety standards and recall regulations often have the same purpose as the u.s. standards but may differ in their requirements and test procedures, adding complexity to regulatory compliance. automotive financing - gm financial gm financial is our global captive automotive finance company and our global provider of automobile finance solutions. gm financial conducts its business in north america, south america and through a joint venture in china. gm financial provides retail loan and lease lending across the credit spectrum. additionally gm financial offers commercial products to dealers that include new and used vehicle inventory financing and dealer loans, which are loans to finance improvements to dealership facilities, to provide working capital, and to purchase and/or finance dealership real estate. other commercial products include financing for parts and accessories, dealer fleets and storage centers. in north america gm financial's retail automobile finance programs include full credit spectrum lending and leasing. the sub-prime lending program is primarily offered to consumers with fico scores less than 620 who have limited access to automobile financing through banks and credit unions and is expected to sustain a higher level of credit losses than prime lending. the leasing product is offered through our franchised dealers and primarily targets prime consumers leasing new vehicles. gm financial has expanded its leasing and prime lending programs through our franchised dealers, and as a result, leasing and prime lending have become a larger percentage of originations and the retail portfolio balance. internationally gm financial's retail automobile finance programs focus on financing new gm vehicles and select used vehicles. generally gm financial seeks to fund its operations in each country through local sources to minimize currency and country risk. gm financial primarily finances its loan, lease and commercial origination volume through the use of secured and unsecured credit facilities, through securitization transactions where such markets are developed and through the issuance of unsecured debt in public markets. employees at december 31, 2017 we employed 103,000 ( 57% ) hourly employees and 77,000 ( 43% ) salaried employees. at december 31, 2017 51,000 ( 50% ) of our u.s. employees were represented by unions, a majority of which were represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agriculture implement workers of america (uaw). the following table summarizes worldwide employment (in thousands): 8 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries december 31, 2017 gmna 124 gmi 47 gm financial 9 total worldwide 180 u.s. - salaried 52 u.s. - hourly 51 executive officers of the registrant as of february 6, 2018 the names and ages of our executive officers and their positions with gm are as follows: name (age) present gm position (effective date) positions held during the past five years (effective date) mary t. barra (56) chairman and chief executive officer (2016) chief executive officer and member of the board of directors (2014) executive vice president, global product development, purchasing &amp; supply chain (2013) daniel ammann (45) president (2014) executive vice president and chief financial officer (2013) alan s. batey (54) executive vice president and president, north america (2014) senior vice president, global chevrolet and brand chief and u.s. sales and marketing (2013) alicia boler-davis (48) executive vice president, global manufacturing (2016) senior vice president, global connected customer experience (2014) vice president, global quality and u.s. customer experience (2012) carel johannes de nysschen (57) executive vice president and president, cadillac (2014) infiniti motor company, president (2012) barry l. engle (54) executive vice president and president, gm international (2018) executive vice president and president, south america (2015) agility fuel systems, ceo (2011) craig b. glidden (60) executive vice president and general counsel (2015) lyondellbasell, executive vice president and chief legal officer (2009) mark l. reuss (54) executive vice president, global product development, purchasing &amp; supply chain (2014) executive vice president and president, north america (2013) charles k. stevens iii (58) executive vice president and chief financial officer (2014) chief financial officer, gm north america (2010) interim chief financial officer, gm south america (2011) matthew tsien (57) executive vice president and president, gm china (2014) gm consolidated international operations vice president, planning, program management &amp; strategic alliances china (2012) thomas s. timko (49) vice president, global business solutions and chief accounting officer (2017) vice president, controller and chief accounting officer (2013) there are no family relationships between any of the officers named above and there is no arrangement or understanding between any of the officers named above and any other person pursuant to which he or she was selected as an officer. each of the officers named above was elected by the board of directors to hold office until the next annual election of officers and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. the board of directors elects the officers immediately following each annual meeting of the stockholders and may appoint other officers between annual meetings. website access to our reports our internet website address is www.gm.com. in addition to the information about us and our subsidiaries contained in this 2017 form 10-k information about us can be found on our website including information on our corporate governance principles and practices. our investor relations website at www.gm.com/investors contains a significant amount of information about us, including financial and other information for investors. we encourage investors to visit our website, as we frequently update and post new information about our company on our website and it is possible that this information could be deemed to be material information. our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this 2017 form 10-k. 9 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). the public may read and copy the materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. additionally the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. the address of the sec's website is www.sec.gov. * * * * * * * item 1a. risk factors we have listed below (not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence) the most significant risk factors applicable to us: if we do not deliver new products, services and customer experiences in response to new participants in the automotive industry, our business could suffer. we believe that the automotive industry will experience significant and continued change in the coming years. in addition to our traditional competitors, we must also be responsive to the entrance of non-traditional participants in the automotive industry. industry participants are seeking to disrupt the historic business model of the industry through the introduction of new technologies, new products or services, new business models or new methods of travel. it is strategically significant that we lead the technological disruption occurring in our industry. to successfully execute our long-term strategy, we must continue to develop new products and services, including products and services that are outside of our historically core business, such as autonomous and electric vehicles, data monetization and transportation as a service. the process of designing and developing new technology, products and services is complex, costly, and uncertain and requires extensive capital investment and the ability to retain and recruit talent. in some cases the technologies that we plan to employ are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by our suppliers. there can be no assurance that advances in technology will occur in a timely or feasible way, or that others will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or that we will acquire technologies on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. if we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond to new kinds of technological innovations, market developments and changing customer needs, our sales, profitability and long-term competitiveness may be harmed. our ability to maintain profitability is dependent upon our ability to timely fund and introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers. we operate in a very competitive industry with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models designed to meet rapidly evolving consumer expectations. producing new and improved vehicle models competitively and preserving our reputation for designing, building and selling safe high quality cars and trucks is critical to our long-term profitability. successful launches of our new vehicles are critical to our short-term profitability. it generally takes two years or more to design and develop a new vehicle, and a number of factors may lengthen that time period. because of this product development cycle and the various elements that may contribute to consumers' acceptance of new vehicle designs, including competitors' product introductions, technological innovations, fuel prices, general economic conditions and changes in quality, safety, reliability and styling demands and preferences, an initial product concept or design may not result in a vehicle that generates sales in sufficient quantities and at high enough prices to be profitable. our high proportion of fixed costs, both due to our significant investment in property, plant and equipment as well as other requirements of our collective bargaining agreements, which limit our flexibility to adjust personnel costs to changes in demands for our products, may further exacerbate the risks associated with incorrectly assessing demand for our vehicles. our profitability is dependent upon the success of crossovers, suvs and full-size pick-up trucks. while we offer a balanced and complete portfolio of small, mid-size and large cars, crossovers, suvs and trucks, we generally recognize higher profit margins on our crossovers, suvs and trucks. our success is dependent upon our ability to sell higher margin vehicles in sufficient volumes. any shift in consumer preferences toward smaller, more fuel efficient vehicles, whether as a result of increases in the price of oil or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of global political instability or other reasons, could weaken the demand for our higher margin vehicles. we must successfully address and reduce the costs associated with the manufacture and sale of electric vehicles. we anticipate that electric vehicle sales will become increasingly important to our business. the inability to reduce the costs associated with the manufacture and sale of electric vehicles may negatively impact our earnings and financial condition. in addition, we currently 10 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries benefit from certain government and economic incentives supporting the development and adoption of electric vehicles. the benefits from these incentives could be reduced, eliminated or exhausted, which may negatively affect our ability to sell electric vehicles in sufficient quantities and at high enough prices to be profitable. our business is highly dependent upon global automobile market sales volume, which can be volatile. because we have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, small changes in sales volume can have a disproportionately large effect on our profitability. a number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, levels of unemployment, availability of affordable financing, fluctuations in the cost of fuel, consumer confidence, political unrest and global economic conditions. for discussion of economic and market trends, see the overview section of item 7. we cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty. our significant business in china subjects us to unique operational, competitive and regulatory risks maintaining a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. our business in china is subject to aggressive competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous domestic manufacturers. as the size of the chinese market continues to increase we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and challenges to gain or hold market share. in addition to increased competition, chinese regulators have announced aggressive policy initiatives and quotas for the sale of electric vehicles. certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government, and chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within china. in order to maintain access to the chinese market, we may be required to comply with significant technical and other regulatory requirements that are unique to the chinese market, at times with challenging lead-time to implement such requirements. these actions may increase the cost of doing business in china and reduce our profitability. a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. many of our operations, primarily in china, are carried out by joint ventures. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions that must further take into consideration our partners' interests. in joint ventures we are required to foster our relationships with our co-owners as well as promote the overall success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, relationships deteriorate or strategic objectives diverge, our success in the joint venture may be materially adversely affected. the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, therefore we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. in addition, because we share ownership and management with one or more parties, we may have limited control over the actions of a joint venture, particularly when we own a minority interest. as a result, we may be unable to prevent misconduct or other violations of applicable laws by a joint venture. moreover, a joint venture may not follow the same requirements regarding compliance, internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. to the extent another party makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control issues arise within the joint venture, we may have to take responsive or other action or we may be subject to penalties, fines or other related actions for these activities. the international scale and footprint of our operations exposes us to additional risks. we manufacture, sell and service products globally and rely upon a global supply chain to deliver the raw materials, components, systems and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our global operations subject us to extensive domestic and foreign legal and regulatory requirements, and a variety of other political, economic and regulatory risks including: changes in government leadership; changes in laws or regulations impacting our overall business model or restricting our ability to manufacture, purchase or sell products, and political pressures to change any aspect of our business model or practices and source raw materials, components, systems and parts on competitive terms in a manner consistent with our current practice; changes in tax laws; economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade policies, including restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the u.s. and china, more detailed inspections, new or higher tariffs, for example, on products imported from mexico into the u.s.; new barriers to entry or domestic preference procurement requirements, changes to or withdrawals from free trade agreements (for example, the north american free trade agreement or nafta), or preferences of foreign nationals for domestically manufactured products; changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, significant changes in conditions in the countries in which we operate with the effect of 11 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries competition from new market entrants; differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety; impact of compliance with u.s. and other foreign countries' export controls and economic sanctions; liabilities resulting from u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to the foreign corrupt practices act and certain other anti-corruption laws; differing labor regulations and union relationships; and difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations. any significant disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could disrupt our production schedule. we assemble vehicles at various facilities around the world. these facilities are typically designed to produce particular models for particular geographic markets. no single facility is designed to manufacture our full range of vehicles. in some cases certain facilities produce products, systems, components and parts that disproportionately contribute a greater degree to our profitability than others. should these or other facilities become unavailable either temporarily or permanently for any number of reasons, including labor disruptions, the inability to manufacture there may result in harm to our reputation, increased costs, lower revenues and the loss of customers. we may not be able to easily shift production to other facilities or to make up for lost production. any new facility needed to replace an inoperable manufacturing facility would need to comply with the necessary regulatory requirements, need to satisfy our specialized manufacturing requirements and require specialized equipment. even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available or any losses which may be excluded under our insurance policies. any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule. our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, raw materials and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our use of just-in-time manufacturing processes allows us to maintain minimal inventory quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts. as a result our ability to maintain production is dependent upon our suppliers delivering sufficient quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts on time to meet our production schedules. in some instances we purchase systems, components, raw materials and parts that ultimately derive from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. disputes, financial difficulties or solvency problems with our suppliers, including takata corporation (takata), which may be exacerbated by the cost of remediating quality issues with these items, could lead to uncertainty in our supply chain or cause supply disruptions for us which could, in turn, disrupt our operations, including production of certain of our higher margin vehicles. where we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components, raw materials or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules or suspend production entirely. high prices of raw materials used by us and our suppliers could negatively impact our profitability. increases in prices for raw materials that we and our suppliers use in manufacturing products, systems, components and parts such as steel, precious metals, non-ferrous metals, including aluminum, copper and plastic parts may lead to higher production costs for parts and components. this could, in turn, negatively impact our future profitability because we may not be able to pass all of those costs on to our customers or require our suppliers to absorb such costs. we operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. the global automotive industry is highly competitive and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry far exceeds demand. many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. many of our competitors have responded to these relatively high fixed costs by providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering marketing incentives or reducing vehicle prices. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations. our competitors may also seek to benefit from economies of scale by consolidating or entering into other strategic agreements such as alliances intended to enhance their competitiveness. domestic manufacturers in lower cost countries, such as china and india, have become competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention to export their products to established markets as a low cost alternative to established entry-level automobiles. in addition, foreign governments may decide to implement tax and other policies that favor their domestic manufacturers at the expense of international manufacturers, including gm and its joint venture partners. these actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. competitors may independently develop products and services similar to ours, and there are no guarantees that gm's intellectual property rights would prevent competitors from independently developing or selling those product and services. there may be instances where, notwithstanding our intellectual property position, competitive products or services may impact the value of our brands and other intangible assets, and our business may be adversely affected. moreover, although gm takes 12 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries reasonable steps to maintain the confidentiality of gm proprietary information, there can be no assurance that such efforts will completely deter misappropriation or improper use of our technology. we sometimes face attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology networks and systems for the purpose of improperly acquiring our trade secrets or confidential business information. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position. in addition, we may be the target of enforcement of patents by third parties, including aggressive and opportunistic enforcement claims by non-practicing entities. regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. although we have taken steps to mitigate such risks, if we are found to infringe any third-party rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from offering some of our products and services. security breaches and other disruptions to information technology systems and networked products, including connected vehicles, owned or maintained by us, gm financial, or third-party vendors or suppliers on our behalf, could interfere with our operations and could compromise the confidentiality of private customer data or our proprietary information. we rely upon information technology systems and manufacture networked products, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, activities and products. additionally we and gm financial collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, proprietary business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. the secure operation of these systems and products, and the processing and maintenance of the information processed by these systems and products, is critical to our business operations and strategy. despite security measures and business continuity plans, these systems and products may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns caused by attacks by hackers, computer viruses, or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to these systems and products. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise the operational integrity of these systems and products. similarly, such an occurrence could result in the compromise or loss of the information processed by these systems and products. such events could result in, among other things, the loss of proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our business operations and damage to our reputation. in addition, such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information; disrupt operations; or reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. we have experienced such events in the past and, although past events were immaterial, future events may occur and may be material. portions of our information technology systems also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors due to regular maintenance efforts, such as systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to design, manufacture and sell products and services, and interrupt other business processes. security breaches and other disruptions of our in-vehicle systems could impact the safety of our customers and reduce confidence in gm and our products . our vehicles contain complex information technology systems. these systems control various vehicle functions including engine, transmission, safety, steering, navigation, acceleration, braking, window and door lock functions. we have designed, implemented and tested security measures intended to prevent unauthorized access to these systems. however, hackers have reportedly attempted, and may attempt in the future, to gain unauthorized access to modify, alter and use such systems to gain control of, or to change, our vehicles' functionality, user interface and performance characteristics, or to gain access to data stored in or generated by the vehicle. any unauthorized access to or control of our vehicles or their systems or any loss of data could impact the safety of our customers or result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties. in addition, regardless of their veracity, reports of unauthorized access to our vehicles, their systems or data could negatively affect our brand and harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. our products are subject to extensive laws, governmental regulations and policies, that can significantly increase our costs and affect how we do business. we are significantly affected by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. meeting or exceeding many of these regulations is costly and often technologically challenging with respect to mandated emissions and fuel economy standards, especially where standards may not be harmonized across jurisdictions. we anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product portfolio, may increase significantly in the future. these government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and given the uncertainty surrounding enforcement and regulatory definitions, may result in substantial costs, including civil or criminal penalties. in addition, an evolving but un-harmonized regulatory framework may limit or dictate the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. refer to the "environmental and regulatory matters" section of item 1. business for further information on these regulatory requirements. we also expect that manufacturers will continue to be subject to increased scrutiny from regulators globally. 13 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries we expect that to comply with fuel economy and emission control requirements we will be required to sell a significant volume of electric vehicles, as well as develop and implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however. there is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such new technologies on a profitable basis or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. in the current uncertain regulatory framework, environmental liabilities for which we may be responsible and that are not reasonably estimable could be substantial. alleged violations of safety or emissions standards could result in legal proceedings, the recall of one or more of our products, negotiated remedial actions, fines, restricted product offerings or a combination of any of those items. any of these actions could have substantial adverse effects on our operations including facility idling, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue. many of our advanced technologies, including autonomous, present novel issues with which domestic and foreign regulators have only limited experience and will be subject to evolving regulatory frameworks. any current or future regulations in these areas could impact whether and how these technologies are designed and integrated into our products, and may ultimately subject us to increased costs and uncertainty. we could be materially adversely affected by unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or other proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings involving various issues, including product liability lawsuits, stockholder litigation and proceedings related to the ignition switch recall. in addition, we are subject to governmental proceedings and investigations. a negative outcome in one or more of these legal proceedings could result in the imposition of damages, including punitive damages, substantial fines, significant reputational harm, civil lawsuits and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, modification of business practices, equitable remedies and other sanctions against us or our personnel as well as significant legal and other costs. in addition, we may become obligated to issue up to 30 million shares of our common stock (subject to adjustment to take into account stock dividends, stock splits and other transactions) to the motors liquidation company guc trust (guc trust) under a provision of the amended and restated master sale and purchase agreement between us and general motors corporation and certain of its subsidiaries in the event that allowed general unsecured claims against the guc trust, as estimated by the united states bankruptcy court for the southern district of new york (bankruptcy court), exceed $35.0 billion. at december 31, 2017, the bankruptcy court estimated that allowed general unsecured claims were approximately $31.9 billion. if, in the discretion of the u.s. attorney's office for the southern district of new york (the u.s. attorney's office), we do not comply with the terms of the deferred prosecution agreement (the dpa), the u.s. attorney's office may prosecute us for charges alleged by the u.s. attorney's office including those relating to faulty ignition switches. on september 17, 2015 we announced that we entered into the dpa with the u.s. attorney's office regarding its investigation of the events leading up to certain recalls announced in february and march of 2014 relating to faulty ignition switches. under the dpa, we consented to, among other things, the filing of a two-count information (the information) in the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york (the southern district) charging gm with a scheme to conceal material facts from a government regulator and wire fraud. we pled not guilty to the charges alleged in the information. the dpa further provides that, in the event the u.s. attorney's office determines during the period of deferral of prosecution (or any extensions thereof) that we have violated any provision of the dpa, including violating any u.s. federal law or our obligation to cooperate with and assist the independent monitor (the monitor), the u.s. attorney's office may, in its discretion, either prosecute us on the charges alleged in the information or impose an extension of the period of deferral of prosecution of up to one additional year. under such circumstance, the u.s. attorney's office would be permitted to rely upon the admissions we made in the dpa and would benefit from our waiver of certain procedural and evidentiary defenses. such a criminal prosecution could subject us to penalties. the costs and effect on our reputation of product safety recalls and alleged defects in products and services could materially adversely affect our business. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy certain product safety defects through recall campaigns. under these standards, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties or may incur various costs, including significant costs for free repairs. at present, the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. the costs to complete a recall or customer satisfaction action could be exacerbated to the extent that such action relates to a global platform. concerns about the safety of our products, including advanced technologies like autonomous, whether raised internally or by regulators or consumer advocates, and whether or not based on scientific evidence, can result in product delays, recalls, lost sales, governmental investigations, regulatory action, private claims, lawsuits and settlements, and reputational damage. these circumstances can also result in damage to brand image, brand equity and consumer trust in the company's products and ability to lead the disruption occurring in the automotive industry. 14 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries we currently source a variety of systems, components, raw materials and parts, including but not limited to air bag inflators, from third parties. from time to time these items may have performance, quality or reputational issues that could harm our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. for example, we are currently conducting recalls for certain takata air bag inflators used in some of our prior model year vehicles. further recalls, if any, that may be required to remediate takata air bag inflators in our vehicles could have a material impact on our business. for a further discussion of these matters refer to note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. we may continue to restructure or divest our operations in various countries, but we may not succeed in doing so. in 2017, we announced significant restructuring and cost reduction actions to lower our operating costs in response to difficult market and operating conditions in various parts of the world. as we continue to assess our performance throughout our regions, we may take additional restructuring actions to rationalize our operations, which may result in impairments and reduce our profitability in the periods incurred. in addition, we may not realize anticipated savings or benefits from past or future cost reduction actions in full or in part or within the time periods we expect. we are also subject to the risks of labor unrest, negative publicity and business disruption in connection with our cost reduction actions. failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from our cost reduction actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement operating effectiveness initiatives throughout our operations. we are continuing to implement a number of operating effectiveness initiatives to improve productivity and reduce costs. our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these initiatives throughout our operations. while some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others, such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our costs. reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering and other expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety and customer satisfaction of our vehicles and to continue to innovate our technology, product and service offerings to meet changing customer needs and market developments are likely to increase. we rely on gm financial to provide financial services to our dealers and customers in a majority of the markets in which we sell vehicles. gm financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and financing to retail consumers and commercial lending to our dealers to support additional sales of our vehicles. we rely on gm financial in north america, south america and china to support leasing and sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring vehicle financing and also to provide commercial lending to our dealers. any reduction in gm financial's ability to provide such financial services would negatively affect our efforts to support additional sales of our vehicles and expand our market penetration among consumers and dealers. as an entity operating in the financial services sector, gm financial is required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations that may be costly to adhere to and may affect our consolidated operating results. compliance with these laws and regulations requires that gm financial maintain forms, processes, procedures, controls and the infrastructure to support these requirements and these laws and regulations often create operational constraints both on gm financial's ability to implement servicing procedures and on pricing. laws in the financial services industry are designed primarily for the protection of consumers. the failure to comply with these laws could result in significant statutory civil and criminal penalties, monetary damages, attorneys' fees and costs, possible revocation of licenses and damage to reputation, brand and valued customer relationships. the primary factors that could adversely affect gm financial's business and operations and reduce its ability to provide financing services at competitive rates include the availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to fund its retail and commercial finance activities; its ability to access a variety of financing sources including the asset-backed securities market and other secured and unsecured debt markets; the performance of loans and leases in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; wholesale auction values of used vehicles; higher than expected vehicle return rates and the residual value performance on vehicles gm financial leases to customers; fluctuations in interest rates and currencies; and changes to regulation, supervision and licensing across various jurisdictions, including new regulations or sanctions imposed in the u.s. by the department of justice, sec and consumer financial protection bureau. our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, changes in laws or regulations, changes in assumptions or investments that do not achieve 15 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries adequate returns. our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. a detailed description of the investment funds and strategies and our potential funding requirements are disclosed in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. our future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit pension plans depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in laws and regulations. future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, assuming other factors are held constant. we estimate future contributions to these plans using assumptions with respect to these and other items. changes to those assumptions could have a significant effect on future contributions. there are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market liquidity in particular asset classes and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. factors which affect future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-u.s. plans. certain plans outside the u.s. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our non-u.s. plans, we could be required to contribute more funds. * * * * * * * quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the chief financial officer with support from the financial risk council which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. the financial risk council comprises members of our management and functions under the oversight of the audit committee and finance committee of the board of directors. the audit committee and finance committee assist and guide the board of directors in its oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. a risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the financial risk council. our financial risk management policy is designed to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures. automotive the following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. the models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates and interest rate yield curves. for options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect of market shifts. there are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, due primarily to the assumption that interest rates change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. in addition the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency pairs, offsetting long-short positions in currency pairs or other exposures such as interest rates which may significantly reduce the potential loss in value. foreign currency exchange rate risk we have foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of our operations. at december 31, 2017 our most significant foreign currency exposures were the u.s. dollar/canadian dollar, u.s. dollar/mexican peso, euro/u.s. dollar, u.s. dollar/chinese yuan, australian dollar/u.s. dollar and u.s. dollar/argentine peso. derivative instruments such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. such contracts had remaining maturities of up to 12 months at december 31, 2017 . the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $0.8 billion at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . these amounts are calculated utilizing a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and exclude the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would have been $0.1 billion and $0.2 billion at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . 41 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries we are exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. we had foreign currency derivatives in asset positions with notional amounts of $2.8 billion and $5.3 billion and in liability positions with notional amounts of $1.2 billion and $0.5 billion at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial condition. the following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement (gains) losses: years ended december 31, 2017 2016 translation (gains) losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (275 ) $ 176 transaction and remeasurement losses recorded in earnings $ 43 $ 225 interest rate risk we are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial instruments, primarily debt, capital lease obligations and certain marketable securities. we did not have any interest rate swap positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . the fair value liability of debt and capital leases was $15.1 billion and $11.4 billion at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . the potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would have been $0.7 billion and $0.5 billion at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . we had marketable securities of $8.3 billion and $11.8 billion classified as available-for-sale at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have had an insignificant effect at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . automotive financing - gm financial interest rate risk fluctuations in market interest rates can affect gm financial's gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between interest earned on finance receivables and interest paid on debt. typically retail finance receivables purchased by gm financial bear fixed interest rates and are funded by variable or fixed rate debt. commercial finance receivables originated by gm financial bear variable interest rates and are funded by variable rate debt. the variable rate debt is subject to adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to help mitigate interest rate risk or mismatched funding, gm financial may employ hedging strategies to lock in the interest rate spread. fixed interest rate receivables purchased by gm financial may be pledged to secure borrowings under its credit facilities. amounts borrowed under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to protect the interest rate spread within each credit facility, gm financial is contractually required to enter into interest rate cap agreements in connection with borrowings under its credit facilities. in gm financial's securitization transactions it can transfer fixed rate finance receivables to securitization trusts that, in turn, sell either fixed rate or floating rate securities to investors. derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps and caps, are used to manage the gross interest rate spread on the floating rate transactions. quantitative disclosure we have historically presented a quantitative measure of our interest rate risk in a tabular disclosure of our interest-sensitive assets and liabilities. with the expansion of our international and north america asset liability committees in 2015 to incorporate more asset-liability management strategies, we now measure the sensitivity of our net interest income to changes in interest rates by using interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous parallel shift of one hundred basis points in all interest rates across all maturities, as well as a base case that assumes that rates perform at the current market forward curve. however, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in our analysis. therefore, the actual impact to economic value of equity could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent our view of future interest rate movements. under these interest rate scenarios, we are asset-sensitive, meaning that we expect more assets than liabilities to re-price within the next twelve months. during a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on our assets will increase more than the interest paid on our debt, which would initially increase our net interest income. during a period of falling interest rates, we would expect 42 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our net interest income to initially decrease. the following table presents our net interest income sensitivity to interest rate movement: years ended december 31, 2017 2016 one hundred basis points instantaneous increase in interest rates $ 19.4 $ (43.9 ) one hundred basis points instantaneous decrease in interest rates(a) $ (19.4 ) $ 43.9 __________ (a) net interest income sensitivity given a one hundred basis point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. additional model assumptions the sensitivity analysis presented is our best estimate of the effect of the hypothetical interest rate scenarios; however, our actual results could differ. our estimates are also based on assumptions including the amortization and prepayment of the finance receivable portfolio, originations of finance receivables and leases, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives and exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives. our prepayment projections are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, our actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. foreign currency exchange rate risk gm financial is exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect gm financial's financial condition. gm financial primarily finances its receivables and leased assets with debt in the same currency. when a different currency is used gm financial may use foreign currency swaps to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local currency of the receivables and lease assets to minimize any impact to earnings. gm financial had foreign currency swaps in asset positions with notional amounts of $2.8 billion and an insignificant amount and in liability positions with notional amounts of an insignificant amount and $0.8 billion at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. the following table summarizes gm financial's foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement (gains) losses: years ended december 31, 2017 2016 translation (gains) losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (474 ) $ 144 transaction and remeasurement losses recorded in earnings $ 9 $ 4 * * * * * * * 43 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm to the shareholders and the board of directors of general motors company: opinion on internal control over financial reporting we have audited the internal control over financial reporting of general motors company and subsidiaries (the "company") as of december 31, 2017, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). in our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by coso. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) (pcaob), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended december 31, 2017, of the company and our report dated february 6, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. basis for opinion the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp detroit, michigan february 6, 2018 44 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm to the shareholders and the board of directors of general motors company: opinion on the financial statements we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of general motors company and subsidiaries (the "company") as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and equity for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2017, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). in our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the company as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2017, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. we have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) (pcaob), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017, based on criteria established in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission and our report dated february 6, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting. basis for opinion these financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's financial statements based on our audits. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. / / d eloitte &amp; t ouche llp detroit, michigan february 6, 2018 we have served as the company's auditor since 1918. 45 table of contents general motors company and subsidiariesrisk factors 10 risk factors for further discussion of these risks. environmental and regulatory matters automotive emissions control we are subject to laws and regulations that require us to control automotive emissions, including vehicle and engine exhaust emission standards, vehicle evaporative emission standards and onboard diagnostic (obd) system requirements. advanced obd systems are used to identify and diagnose problems with emission control systems. problems detected by the obd system and other in-use compliance monitoring activities may increase warranty costs and the likelihood of recall. emission and obd requirements have become more stringent as a result of lower emission standards and new diagnostic requirements that have come into force in many markets around the world driven by policy priorities such as air quality, energy security and climate change, often with very little harmonization. while we believe all of our products are designed and manufactured in material compliance with substantially all vehicle emissions requirements, regulatory authorities may conduct ongoing evaluations of the emissions compliance of products from all manufacturers. this includes vehicle emissions testing, including co 2 and nitrogen oxide emissions testing, and review of emission control designs and strategies. the u.s. federal government, through the environmental protection agency (epa), imposes stringent exhaust and evaporative emission control requirements on vehicles sold in the u.s. the california air resources board (carb) likewise imposes stringent exhaust and evaporative emission standards, as well as the requirement that increasing percentages of zero emission vehicle (zevs) must be sold in california. the clean air act permits states that have areas with air quality compliance issues to adopt california emission standards in lieu of federal requirements. thirteen states have adopted california emission standards, and ten 5 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries of these have adopted the zev requirements. there is a possibility that additional u.s. jurisdictions could adopt california emissions and zev requirements in the future. although the epa has not imposed zev requirements, the epa and california's emissions control standards will likely increase the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle's emission performance. the canadian federal government's vehicle emission requirements are generally aligned with the u.s. federal requirements. the canadian province of quebec has adopted zev requirements starting with the 2018 model year largely based on california program requirements. each model year we must obtain certification that our vehicles and heavy-duty engines will meet emission requirements of the epa before we can sell vehicles in the u.s. and canada, and of the carb before we can sell vehicles in california and other states that have adopted the california emissions requirements. china implemented the china 5 emission standard nationwide at the beginning of 2017. china 5 is more stringent than the previous program on all levels including overall emission requirements and the time and mileage period for which vehicles need to meet china 5 level performance. china will implement a unique china 6 emission standard that combines elements of both european and u.s. standards and includes more stringent emission requirements and increases the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle's emission performance. nationwide implementation for new registrations is expected in july 2020 for china 6a and july 2023 for the more stringent china 6b standard. localities can pull ahead china 6 requirements if certain criteria are met. the majority of cities that have announced plans to implement china 6 early have projected implementation in july 2019, but one city has indicated implementation in the three months ended march 31, 2019. for additional information, refer to item 1a. risk factors. in south america certain countries follow the u.s. test procedures, standards and obd requirements and others follow the european union test procedures, standards and obd requirements with different levels of stringency. brazil implemented national l6 standards for light diesel vehicles in 2012 and obd installation for light diesel vehicles in 2015. l6 standards for light gasoline vehicles were implemented in 2015 for all models. as a result of the sale of the opel/vauxhall business, gm's vehicle presence in europe is smaller, but gm may still be affected by actions taken by regulators related both to opel/vauxhall vehicles sold before the sale of the opel/vauxhall business as well as to other vehicles gm continues to sell in europe. in the european union, increased scrutiny of compliance with emissions standards may result in changes to these standards, including implementation of real world driving emissions tests, as well as stricter interpretations or redefinition of these standards and more rigorous enforcement. for example, our former german subsidiary has participated in continuing discussions with german and european authorities concerning emissions control systems. for additional information, refer to note 22 to our consolidated financial statements. automotive fuel economy in the u.s., the national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa) promulgates and enforces corporate average fuel economy (cafe) standards for three separate fleets: domestically produced cars, imported cars and light-duty trucks. manufacturers are subject to substantial civil penalties if they fail to meet the applicable cafe standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding five model years and expected credits for the three succeeding model years, including credits obtained from other manufacturers. in addition to federal cafe, the epa promulgates and enforces ghg emission standards, which are effectively fuel economy standards because the majority of vehicle ghg emissions are carbon dioxide emissions that are emitted in direct proportion to the amount of fuel burned by a vehicle. the epa and nhtsa also regulate the fuel efficiency and ghg emissions of medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, imposing more stringent standards over time. in canada, light-duty and heavy-duty ghg regulations are currently patterned after the existing epa ghg emission standards. however, with both the u.s. and canadian governments reviewing potential changes to these existing regulations and the difference in each country's climate change policies, there is an increased risk that future canadian light-duty ghg regulations may not be aligned with future epa regulations. in addition, carb has asserted the right to promulgate and enforce its own state ghg standards for motor vehicles, and other states have asserted the right to adopt the california standards. until recently, carb regulations have provided that compliance with the federal epa light-duty ghg program is deemed to be in compliance with the california standards through the 2025 model year. however, on december 12, 2018 carb amended this regulation to clarify that, in the event the epa alters the ghg stringency by means of the now-pending epa ghg rulemaking, compliance with the epa's ghg emissions standards will no longer be deemed in compliance with carb's requirements. as a result, depending on the outcome of the epa ghg rulemaking and finality of carb's regulatory amendment in the future gm might be required to meet california standards that are different than the epa ghg standards. 6 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries china has two fuel economy requirements for passenger vehicles: an individual vehicle pass-fail type approval requirement and a fleet average fuel consumption requirement. with a focus on the fleet average program, the current china phase 4 fleet fuel consumption requirement, which went into effect in 2016, is based on curb weight with full compliance to 5.0l/100 km required by 2020. china phase 4 has continued subsidies for plug-in hybrid, battery electric and fuel cell vehicles. china phase 5 is currently being developed with a planned start in 2021 with full compliance to 4.0l/100km required by 2025. in addition, china has established the new energy vehicle (nev) mandate which will require passenger car manufacturers to produce a certain volume of plug-in hybrid, battery electric and fuel cell vehicles to generate "credits" equivalent to 10% in 2019 and 12% in 2020 against the internal combustion engine vehicle production volume. the number of credits per car is based on the level of electric range and energy efficiency. the nev mandate requirement for 2021 to 2025 currently is being developed with a goal of nev volume reaching 20% of total vehicle volume in 2025. regulators in other jurisdictions have already adopted or are developing fuel economy or carbon dioxide regulations. if regulators in these jurisdictions seek to impose and enforce emission standards that are misaligned with market conditions, we may be forced to take various actions to increase market support programs for more fuel-efficient vehicles and curtail production of certain high-performance cars, trucks and sport utility vehicles (suvs) in order to achieve compliance. we regularly evaluate our current and future product plans and strategies for compliance with fuel economy and ghg regulations. industrial environmental control our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws including those regulating air emissions, water discharge, waste management and environmental cleanup. certain environmental statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. under certain circumstances these laws impose joint and several liability as well as liability for related damages to natural resources. to mitigate the effects of our worldwide operations on the environment, we are converting as many of our worldwide operations as practicable to landfill-free operations which reduces ghg emissions associated with waste disposal. at december 31, 2018 , 75 (or approximately 50%) of our manufacturing operations and 61 of our non-manufacturing operations were landfill-free, including idled facilities. at our landfill-free manufacturing operations approximately 94% of waste materials are composted, reused, or recycled and approximately 5% are converted to energy at waste-to-energy facilities. in 2018 we estimate that our waste reduction program diverted 1.6 million metric tons of waste from landfill, resulting in approximately 6.9 million metric tons of ghg emissions avoided in global manufacturing operations, including construction, demolition and remediation wastes. in addition to minimizing our impact on the environment, our landfill-free program and total waste reduction commitments generate revenue from the sale of production by-products, reduce our use of material, reduce our carbon footprint and help to reduce the risks and financial liabilities associated with waste disposal. we continue to search for ways to increase our use of renewable energy, improve our energy efficiency and work to drive growth and scale of renewables. we are committed to meeting the electricity needs of our operations worldwide with renewable energy by 2050. at december 31, 2018 we had implemented projects or signed renewable energy contracts globally that had increased our total renewable energy capacity to over 400 megawatts, which represents approximately 20% of our global electricity use. in 2018, several wind farms totaling approximately 250 megawatts now match the load of gm facilities in texas, ohio and indiana. we continue to seek opportunities for a diversified renewable energy portfolio including wind, solar, and landfill gas. in 2018 energy star certified one assembly plant in canada through natural resources canada and 17 buildings in the u.s. for superior energy management. we also met the epa energy star challenge for industry (epa challenge) at eight additional sites globally by reducing energy intensity an average of 13% at these sites within 2.5 years. to meet the epa challenge, industrial sites must reduce energy intensity by 10% within a five year period. in total 75 gm-owned manufacturing sites have met the epa challenge, with many sites achieving the goal multiple times for a total of 137 recognitions. these efforts minimize our utility expenses and are part of our approach to addressing climate change through setting a ghg emissions reduction target, collecting accurate data, following our business plan to operate more efficiently and publicly reporting progress against our target. chemical regulations we continually monitor the implementation of chemical regulations to maintain compliance and evaluate their effect on our business, suppliers and the automotive industry. globally, governmental agencies continue to introduce new legislation and regulations related to the selection and use of chemicals by mandating broad prohibitions or restrictions and implementing green chemistry, life cycle analysis and product stewardship initiatives. these initiatives give broad regulatory authority to ban or restrict the use of certain chemical substances and potentially affect automobile manufacturers' responsibilities for vehicle components at the end of a vehicle's life, as well as chemical selection for product development and manufacturing. global treaties and initiatives such as the stockholm, basel and rotterdam 7 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries conventions on chemicals and waste and the minamata convention on mercury, are driving chemical regulations across signatory countries. in addition, more global jurisdictions are establishing substance standards with regard to vehicle interior air quality. chemical regulations are increasing in north america. in the u.s. the epa is moving forward with risk analysis and management of high priority chemicals under the authority of the 2016 lautenberg chemical safety for the 21st century act, and several u.s. states have chemical management regulations that can affect vehicle design such as the california and washington laws banning the use of copper in brake friction material. chemical restrictions in canada continue to progress rapidly as a result of environment canada's chemical management plan to assess existing substances and implement risk management controls on any chemical deemed toxic. china prohibits the use of several chemical substances in vehicles. there are also various regulations in china stipulating the requirements for chemical management. among other things, these regulations catalogue and restrict the use and the import and export of various chemical substances. the failure of our joint venture partners or our suppliers to comply with these regulations could disrupt production in china or prevent our joint venture partners from selling the affected products in the china market. these emerging regulations will potentially lead to increases in costs and supply chain complexity. we believe that we are materially in compliance with substantially all of these requirements or expect to be materially in compliance by the required dates. safety in the u.s. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 prohibits the sale of any new vehicle or equipment in the u.s. that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by nhtsa. if we or nhtsa determine that either a vehicle or vehicle equipment does not comply with a safety standard or if a vehicle defect creates an unreasonable safety risk the manufacturer is required to notify owners and provide a remedy. we are required to report certain information relating to certain customer complaints, warranty claims, field reports and notices and claims involving property damage, injuries and fatalities in the u.s. and claims involving fatalities outside the u.s. we are also required to report certain information concerning safety recalls and other safety campaigns outside the u.s. outside the u.s. safety standards and recall regulations often have the same purpose as the u.s. standards but may differ in their requirements and test procedures, adding complexity to regulatory compliance. automotive financing - gm financial gm financial is our global captive automotive finance company and our global provider of automobile finance solutions. gm financial conducts its business in north america, south america and through joint ventures in china. gm financial provides retail loan and lease lending across the credit spectrum. additionally, gm financial offers commercial lending products to dealers including new and used vehicle inventory floorplan financing and dealer loans, that are loans to finance improvements to dealership facilities, to provide working capital, and to purchase and/or finance dealership real estate. other commercial lending products include financing for parts and accessories, dealer fleets and storage centers. in north america, gm financial offers a sub-prime lending program. the program is primarily offered to consumers with a fico score or its equivalent of less than 620 who have limited access to automobile financing through banks and credit unions and is expected to sustain a higher level of credit losses than prime lending. gm financial generally seeks to fund its operations in each country through local sources to minimize currency and country risk. gm financial primarily finances its loan, lease and commercial origination volume through the use of secured and unsecured credit facilities, through securitization transactions and through the issuance of unsecured debt in public markets. 8 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries employees at december 31, 2018 we employed 97,000 ( 56% ) hourly employees and 76,000 ( 44% ) salaried employees. at december 31, 2018 50,000 ( 49% ) of our u.s. employees were represented by unions, a majority of which were represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agriculture implement workers of america (uaw). the following table summarizes worldwide employment (in thousands): december 31, 2018 gmna(a) 124 gmi 39 gm financial 10 total worldwide 173 u.s. - salaried 53 u.s. - hourly 50 __________ (a) includes gm cruise in november 2018 we announced our plan to transform our global workforce, which includes reducing our salaried staff in 2019 to ensure we have the right skill sets for today and the future, as well as 25% fewer executives to streamline decision making. executive officers of the registrant as of february 6, 2019 the names and ages of our executive officers and their positions with gm are as follows: name (age) present gm position (effective date) positions held during the past five years (effective date) mary t. barra (57) chairman and chief executive officer (2016) chief executive officer and member of the board of directors (2014) alan s. batey (55) executive vice president and president, north america (2014) alicia boler-davis (49) executive vice president, global manufacturing (2016) senior vice president, global connected customer experience (2014) vice president, global quality and u.s. customer experience (2012) barry l. engle (55) executive vice president and president, gm international (2018) executive vice president and president, south america (2015) agility fuel systems, chief executive officer (2011) craig b. glidden (61) executive vice president and general counsel (2015) lyondellbasell, executive vice president and chief legal officer (2009) christopher t. hatto (48) vice president, controller and chief accounting officer (2018) chief financial officer, u.s. sales operations (2016) chief financial officer, customer care and aftersales (2013) mark l. reuss (55) president (2019) executive vice president and president, global product development group and cadillac (2018) executive vice president, global product development, purchasing &amp; supply chain (2014) dhivya suryadevara (39) executive vice president and chief financial officer (2018) vice president corporate finance (2017) vice president finance and treasurer (2015) chief executive officer, gm asset management (2013) matthew tsien (58) executive vice president and president, gm china (2014) there are no family relationships between any of the officers named above and there is no arrangement or understanding between any of the officers named above and any other person pursuant to which he or she was selected as an officer. each of the officers named above was elected by the board of directors to hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. website access to our reports our internet website address is www.gm.com. in addition to the information about us and our subsidiaries contained in this 2018 form 10-k information about us can be found on our website including information on our corporate governance principles and practices. our investor relations website at https://investor.gm.com contains a significant amount of information about us, including financial and other information for investors. we encourage investors to visit our website, as we frequently update and post new information about our company on our website and it is possible that this information could 9 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries be deemed to be material information. our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this 2018 form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act) are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). * * * * * * * item 1a. risk factors we have listed below the most significant risk factors applicable to us. these risk factors are not necessarily in the order of importance or probability of occurrence: if we do not deliver new products, services and customer experiences in response to increased competition in the automotive industry, our business could suffer. we believe that the automotive industry will continue to experience significant change in the coming years. in addition to our traditional competitors, we must also be responsive to the entrance of non-traditional participants in the automotive industry. industry participants are disrupting the historic business model of our industry through the introduction of new technologies, products, services, and methods of travel and vehicle ownership. it is strategically significant that we lead the technological disruption occurring in our industry, including consumer adoption of electric vehicles and commercialization of autonomous vehicles in a rideshare environment. to successfully execute our long-term strategy, we must continue to develop new products and services, including products and services that are outside of our historically core business, such as autonomous and electric vehicles, digital services and transportation as a service. the process of designing and developing new technology, products and services is complex, costly, and uncertain and requires extensive capital investment and the ability to retain and recruit talent. there can be no assurance that advances in technology will occur in a timely or feasible way, or that others will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or that we will acquire technologies on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. if we do not adequately prepare for and respond to new kinds of technological innovations, market developments and changing customer needs, our sales, profitability and long-term competitiveness may be harmed. our ability to maintain profitability is dependent upon our ability to timely fund and introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers. we operate in a very competitive industry with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models and features designed to meet rapidly evolving consumer expectations. producing new and improved vehicle models preserving our reputation for designing, building and selling safe, high-quality cars and trucks is critical to our long-term profitability. successful launches of our new vehicles are critical to our short-term profitability. it generally takes two years or more to design and develop a new vehicle, and a number of factors may lengthen that time period. because of this product development cycle and the various elements that may contribute to consumers' acceptance of new vehicle designs, including competitors' product introductions, technological innovations, fuel prices, general economic conditions and changes in quality, safety, reliability and styling demands and preferences, an initial product concept or design may not result in a vehicle that generates sales in sufficient quantities and at high enough prices to be profitable. our high proportion of fixed costs, both due to our significant investment in property, plant and equipment as well as other requirements of our collective bargaining agreements, which limit our flexibility to adjust personnel costs to changes in demands for our products, may further exacerbate the risks associated with incorrectly assessing demand for our vehicles. our profitability is dependent upon the success of suvs and full-size pick-up trucks. while we offer a balanced portfolio of cars, crossovers, suvs and trucks, we generally recognize higher profit margins on our suvs and trucks. our success is dependent upon our ability to sell higher margin vehicles in sufficient volumes. any shift in consumer preferences toward smaller, more fuel- efficient vehicles, whether as a result of increases in the price of oil or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of global political instability or other reasons, could weaken the demand for our higher margin vehicles. we may continue to restructure our operations in the u.s. and various other countries and initiate additional cost reduction actions, but we may not succeed in doing so. since 2017, we have undertaken restructuring actions to lower our operating costs in response to difficult market and operating conditions in various parts of the world, including the u.s., korea and europe. as we continue to assess our performance throughout our regions, we may take additional restructuring actions to rationalize our operations, which may result in asset write-downs or impairments and reduce our profitability in the periods incurred. in addition, we are continuing to implement a number of operating effectiveness initiatives to improve productivity and reduce costs. for example, in late 2018, we announced certain transformation actions to drive significant cost efficiencies and realign our current 10 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries manufacturing capacity and utilization in response to market-related volume declines in passenger cars. there is no guarantee that we will realize the anticipated savings or benefits from past or future restructuring and/or cost reduction actions in full or within the time periods we expect. in addition, these actions also subject us to increased risks of labor unrest or strikes, litigation, negative publicity and business disruption. failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from our restructuring and/or cost reduction actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. our electric vehicle strategy is dependent upon our ability to reduce the cost of manufacturing electric vehicles, as well as increased consumer adoption. we anticipate that the production and profitable sale of electric vehicles will become increasingly important to our business. our inability to reduce the costs associated with the manufacture of battery-electric vehicles may negatively impact our earnings and financial condition. we currently benefit from certain government and economic incentives supporting the development of electric vehicles. the benefits from these incentives could be reduced, eliminated or exhausted, which may negatively affect our ability to sell electric vehicles at high enough prices to be profitable. in addition, our sale of electric vehicles is dependent upon consumer adoption, which could be impacted by numerous factors, including perceptions about electric vehicle features, quality, safety, performance and cost; perceptions about the limited range over which electric vehicles may be driven on a single battery charge; high fuel-economy internal combustion engine vehicles; volatility in the cost of fuel; government regulations and economic incentives; and access to charging facilities. our autonomous vehicle strategy is dependent upon our ability to successfully mitigate unique technological, operational, and regulatory risks. in recent years, we announced significant investments in autonomous vehicle technologies, including in gm cruise holdings llc (gm cruise holdings), our subsidiary that is responsible for the development and commercialization of autonomous vehicle technology. our autonomous vehicle operations are capital intensive and subject to a variety of risks inherent with the development of new technologies, including: our ability to continue to develop self-driving software and hardware, such as lidar sensors and other components; access to sufficient capital, including with respect to additional softbank funding that is subject to regulatory approval; risks related to the manufacture of purpose-built autonomous vehicles; and significant competition from both established automotive companies and technology companies, some of which may have more resources and capital to devote to autonomous vehicle technologies than we do. in addition, we face risks related to the commercial deployment of autonomous vehicles on our targeted timeline or at all, including consumer acceptance, achievement of adequate safety and other performance standards and compliance with uncertain, evolving and potentially conflicting federal and state regulations. to the extent accidents, cybersecurity breaches or other adverse events associated with our autonomous driving systems occur, we could be subject to liability, government scrutiny and further regulation. any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. our business is highly dependent upon global automobile market sales volume, which can be volatile. because we have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, small changes in sales volume can have a disproportionately large effect on our profitability. a number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, the availability and prices of used vehicles, levels of unemployment, availability of affordable financing, fluctuations in the cost of fuel, consumer confidence, political unrest and global economic conditions. for a discussion of economic and market trends, see the overview section of the md&amp;a. we cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty. 11 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our significant business in china subjects us to unique operational, competitive and regulatory risks. maintaining a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. our business in china is subject to aggressive competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous domestic manufacturers as well as non-traditional market participants, such as domestic technology companies. in addition, our success in china depends upon our ability to adequately address unique market and consumer preferences driven by advancements related to infotainment and other new technologies. increased competition, increased u.s.-china trade restrictions and weakening economic conditions in china, among other things, may result in price reductions, reduced sales, profitability, and margins, and challenges to gain or hold market share. in addition to increased competition, chinese regulators have announced aggressive "green" policy initiatives and quotas for the sale of electric vehicles, which have challenging lead times. certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government, and chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within china. in order to maintain access to the chinese market, we may be required to comply with significant technical and other regulatory requirements that are unique to the chinese market, at times with challenging lead times to implement such requirements. these actions may increase the cost of doing business in china and reduce our profitability. in particular, the announced intention of several chinese cities to implement new china 6 emissions regulations in july 2019 represents a risk for the sales of our chinese joint ventures. a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. many of our operations, primarily in china and korea, are carried out by joint ventures. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions that must further take into consideration our partners' interests. in joint ventures we are required to foster our relationships with our co-owners as well as promote the overall success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, relationships deteriorate or strategic objectives diverge, our success in the joint venture may be materially adversely affected. the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, therefore we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. in addition, because we share ownership and management with one or more parties, we may have limited control over the actions of a joint venture, particularly when we own a minority interest. as a result, we may be unable to prevent misconduct or other violations of applicable laws by a joint venture. moreover, a joint venture may not follow the same requirements regarding compliance, internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. to the extent another party makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control issues arise within the joint venture, we may have to take responsive or other actions or we may be subject to penalties, fines or other related actions for these activities. the international scale and footprint of our operations exposes us to additional risks. we manufacture, sell and service products globally and rely upon a global supply chain to deliver the raw materials, components, systems and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our global operations subject us to extensive domestic and foreign legal and regulatory requirements, and a variety of other political, economic and regulatory risks including: (1) changes in government leadership; (2) changes in labor, tax and other laws, regulations or government policies impacting our overall business model or practices or restricting our ability to manufacture, purchase or sell products consistent with market demand and our business objectives; (3) political pressures to change any aspect of our business model or practices or that impair our ability to source raw materials, services, components, systems and parts, or manufacture products on competitive terms in a manner consistent with our business objectives; (4) political instability or government controls over certain sectors; (5) political and economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade policies, including restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between china and the u.s.; (6) more detailed inspections, new or higher tariffs, for example, on products imported into or exported from the u.s.; (7) new barriers to entry or domestic preference procurement requirements, including changes to, withdrawals from or impediments to implementing free trade agreements (for example, the north american free trade agreement or its successor), or preferences of foreign nationals for domestically manufactured products; (8) changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in brazil and argentina, and interest rates; (9) economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, or significant changes in conditions in the countries in which we operate; (10) differing local product preferences and product requirements, including government certification requirements related to, among other things, fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety; (11) impact of compliance with u.s. and other foreign countries' export controls and economic sanctions; (12) liabilities resulting from u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those related to the foreign corrupt practices act and certain other anti-corruption laws; (13) differing labor regulations, requirements and union relationships; (14) differing dealer and franchise regulations and relationships; and (15) difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations. 12 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries any significant disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could disrupt our production schedule. we assemble vehicles at various facilities around the world. our facilities are typically designed to produce particular models for particular geographic markets. no single facility is designed to manufacture our full range of vehicles. in some cases, certain facilities produce products, systems, components and parts that disproportionately contribute a greater degree to our profitability than others. should these or other facilities become unavailable either temporarily or permanently for any number of reasons, including labor disruptions or catastrophic weather events, the inability to manufacture at the affected facility may result in harm to our reputation, increased costs, lower revenues and the loss of customers. we may not be able to easily shift production to other facilities or to make up for lost production. any new facility needed to replace an inoperable manufacturing facility would need to comply with the necessary regulatory requirements, need to satisfy our specialized manufacturing requirements and require specialized equipment. in 2019, our collective bargaining agreement with the united automobile workers will expire, and we will negotiate a new agreement. in addition, in late 2018 we announced certain restructuring actions, which included among other things, a reduction in our workforce and the unallocation of products to certain manufacturing facilities in north america. as a result, we may be subject to an increased risk of strikes, work stoppages or other types of conflicts with labor unions and employees. any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule. our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, raw materials and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our use of just-in-time manufacturing processes allows us to maintain minimal inventory. as a result, our ability to maintain production is dependent upon our suppliers delivering sufficient quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts on time to meet our production schedules. in some instances, we purchase systems, components, raw materials and parts that are ultimately derived from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. any number of factors, including labor disruptions, catastrophic weather events, contractual or other disputes with suppliers, and supplier financial difficulties or solvency problems could disrupt our suppliers' operations and lead to uncertainty in our supply chain or cause supply disruptions for us which could, in turn, disrupt our operations, including the production of certain of our higher margin vehicles. if we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components, raw materials or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules or suspend production entirely. high prices of raw materials or other inputs used by us and our suppliers could negatively impact our profitability. increases in prices for raw materials or other inputs that we and our suppliers use in manufacturing products, systems, components and parts, such as steel, precious metals, or non-ferrous metals, including aluminum, copper and plastic, may lead to higher production costs for parts, components and vehicles. changes in trade policies and tariffs, fluctuations in supply and demand, and other economic and political factors may continue to create pricing pressure for raw materials and other inputs. this could, in turn, negatively impact our future profitability because we may not be able to pass all of those costs on to our customers or require our suppliers to absorb such costs. we operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. the global automotive industry is highly competitive and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry far exceeds demand. many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. many of our competitors have responded to these relatively high fixed costs by providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering marketing incentives or reducing vehicle prices. as a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations. our competitors may also seek to benefit from economies of scale by consolidating or entering into other strategic agreements such as alliances intended to enhance their competitiveness. domestic manufacturers in lower cost countries, such as china and india, have become competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention to export their products to established markets as a low-cost alternative to established entry-level automobiles. in addition, foreign governments may decide to implement tax and other policies that favor their domestic manufacturers at the expense of international manufacturers, including gm and its joint venture partners. these actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. competitors may independently develop products and services similar to ours, and there are no guarantees that gm's intellectual property rights would prevent competitors from independently developing or selling those products and services. there may be instances where, notwithstanding our intellectual property position, competitive products or services may impact the value of our brands and other intangible assets, and our business may be adversely affected. moreover, although gm takes reasonable steps to maintain the confidentiality of gm proprietary information, there can be no assurance that such efforts will 13 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries completely deter misappropriation or improper use of our technology. we sometimes face attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology networks and systems for the purpose of improperly acquiring our trade secrets or confidential business information. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position. in addition, we may be the target of enforcement of patents by third parties, including aggressive and opportunistic enforcement claims by non-practicing entities. regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. although we have taken steps to mitigate such risks, if we are found to infringe any third-party rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from offering some of our products and services. security breaches and other disruptions to information technology systems and networked products, including connected vehicles, owned or maintained by us, gm financial, or third-party vendors or suppliers on our behalf, could interfere with our operations and could compromise the confidentiality of private customer data or our proprietary information. we rely upon information technology systems and manufacture networked products, some of which are managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, activities and products. additionally, we and gm financial collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, proprietary business information of our dealers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. the secure operation of these systems and products, and the processing and maintenance of the information processed by these systems and products, is critical to our business operations and strategy. despite security measures and business continuity plans, these systems and products may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns caused by attacks by hackers, computer viruses, or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to these systems and products. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise the operational integrity of these systems and products. similarly, such an occurrence could result in the compromise or loss of the information processed by these systems and products. such events could result in, among other things, the loss of proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our business operations and damage to our reputation. in addition, such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information; disrupt operations; or reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. we have experienced such events in the past and, although past events were immaterial, future events may occur and may be material. portions of our information technology systems also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors due to regular maintenance efforts, such as systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to design, manufacture and sell products and services, and interrupt other business processes. security breaches and other disruptions of our in-vehicle systems could impact the safety of our customers and reduce confidence in gm and our products . our vehicles contain complex information technology systems. these systems control various vehicle functions including engine, transmission, safety, steering, navigation, acceleration, braking, window and door lock functions. we have designed, implemented and tested security measures intended to prevent unauthorized access to these systems. however, hackers have reportedly attempted, and may attempt in the future, to gain unauthorized access to modify, alter and use such systems to gain control of, or to change, our vehicles' functionality, user interface and performance characteristics, or to gain access to data stored in or generated by the vehicle. any unauthorized access to or control of our vehicles or their systems or any loss of data could impact the safety of our customers or result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties. in addition, regardless of their veracity, reports of unauthorized access to our vehicles, their systems or data could negatively affect our brand and harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. our enterprise data practices, including the collection, use, sharing, and security of the personal identifiable information of our customers, employees, or suppliers are subject to increasingly complex, restrictive, and punitive regulations in all key market regions . under these regulations, the failure to maintain compliant data practices could result in consumer complaints and regulatory inquiry, resulting in civil or criminal penalties, as well as brand impact or other harm to our business. in addition, increased consumer sensitivity to real or perceived failures in maintaining acceptable data practices could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. because many of these laws are new, there is little clarity as to their interpretation, as well as a lack of precedent for the scope of enforcement. the cost of compliance with these laws and regulations will be high and is likely to increase in the future. for example, in europe, the general data protection regulation came into effect on may 25, 2018, and applies to all our ongoing operations in the eu. this regulation significantly increases the potential financial penalties for noncompliance, including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual turnover. similar regulations are coming into effect in brazil, china, and california. 14 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our operations and products are subject to extensive laws, governmental regulations and policies that can significantly increase our costs and affect how we do business. we are significantly affected by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio, particularly regulations relating to emissions and fuel economy standards. meeting or exceeding many of these regulations is costly and often technologically challenging, especially when standards may not be harmonized across jurisdictions. we anticipate that the number and extent of these and other regulations, laws and policies, and the related costs and changes to our product portfolio, may increase significantly in the future, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about global climate change and its impact). these government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and given the uncertainty surrounding enforcement and regulatory definitions and interpretations, may result in substantial costs, including civil or criminal penalties. in addition, an evolving but un-harmonized regulatory framework may limit or dictate the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. refer to the "environmental and regulatory matters" section of item 1. business for further information on these requirements. we also expect that manufacturers will continue to be subject to increased scrutiny from regulators globally. we expect that to comply with current or even revised fuel economy and emission control requirements we will be required to sell a significant volume of electric vehicles, as well as develop and implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however. there is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such new technologies on a profitable basis or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. in the current uncertain regulatory framework, environmental liabilities for which we may be responsible and that are not reasonably estimable could be substantial. alleged violations of safety, fuel economy or emissions standards could result in legal proceedings, the recall of one or more of our products, negotiated remedial actions, fines, restricted product offerings or a combination of any of those items. any of these actions could have substantial adverse effects on our operations including facility idling, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue. many of our advanced technologies, including autonomous vehicles, present novel issues with which domestic and foreign regulators have only limited experience and will be subject to evolving regulatory frameworks. any current or future regulations in these areas could impact whether and how these technologies are designed and integrated into our products, and may ultimately subject us to increased costs and uncertainty. we could be materially adversely affected by unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or other proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings involving various issues, including product liability lawsuits, class action litigations alleging product defects, emissions litigation (both in the u.s. and elsewhere), stockholder litigation, labor litigation in various countries (including korea and brazil) and proceedings related to the ignition switch recall. in addition, we are subject to governmental proceedings and investigations. a negative outcome in one or more of these legal proceedings could result in the imposition of damages, including punitive damages, substantial fines, significant reputational harm, civil lawsuits and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, modification of business practices, equitable remedies and other sanctions against us or our personnel as well as significant legal and other costs. in addition, we may become obligated to issue additional shares (adjustment shares) of up to 30 million shares of our common stock (subject to adjustment to take into account stock dividends, stock splits and other transactions) to the motors liquidation company (mlc) guc trust (guc trust) under a provision of the amended and restated master sale and purchase agreement between us and general motors corporation and certain of its subsidiaries in the event that allowed general unsecured claims against the guc trust, as estimated by the united states bankruptcy court for the southern district of new york (bankruptcy court), exceed $35.0 billion. the guc trust stated in public filings that allowed general unsecured claims were approximately $31.9 billion as of december 31, 2018. for a further discussion of these matters refer to note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. the costs and effect on our reputation of product safety recalls and alleged defects in products and services could materially adversely affect our business. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy certain product safety defects through recall campaigns. under these standards, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties or may incur various costs, including significant costs for free repairs. at present, the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. the costs to complete a recall could be exacerbated to the extent that such action relates to a global platform. concerns about the safety of our products, including advanced technologies like autonomous, whether raised internally or by regulators or consumer advocates, and whether or not based on scientific evidence or supported by data, can result in product delays, recalls, lost sales, governmental investigations, regulatory action, private claims, lawsuits and settlements, and reputational damage. these circumstances can also result in damage to brand image, brand equity and consumer trust in the company's products and ability to lead the disruption occurring in the automotive industry. 15 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries we currently source a variety of systems, components, raw materials and parts from third parties. from time to time these items may have performance or quality issues that could harm our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs. we may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the u.s. and numerous other jurisdictions in which we do business. many judgments are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities, and we are regularly under audit by the u.s. internal revenue service and other tax authorities, which may not agree with our tax positions. in addition, our tax liabilities are subject to other significant risks and uncertainties, including those arising from potential changes in laws and/or regulations in the countries in which we do business, the possibility of adverse determinations with respect to the application of existing laws, and changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. any unfavorable resolution of these and other uncertainties may have a significant adverse impact on our tax rate. for example, the impact of the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act), which was enacted on december 22, 2017, may differ from the company's previously recorded amounts, possibly materially, due to potential changes in the tax act (including with respect to the regulations promulgated thereunder) or changes to its interpretation. if our tax expense were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. we rely on gm financial to provide financial services to our customers and dealers in north america, south america and asia/pacific. gm financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations, which in turn impede its ability to provide leasing and financing to customers and commercial lending to our dealers. any reduction in gm financial's ability to provide such financial services would negatively affect our efforts to support additional sales of our vehicles and expand our market penetration among customers and dealers. the primary factors that could adversely affect gm financial's business and operations and reduce its ability to provide financing services at competitive rates include the sufficiency, availability and cost of sources of financing, including credit facilities, securitization programs and secured and unsecured debt issuances; the performance of loans and leases in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by charge-offs, delinquencies and prepayments; wholesale auction values of used vehicles; higher than expected vehicle return rates and the residual value performance on vehicles gm financial leases to customers; fluctuations in interest rates and currencies; and changes to regulation, supervision, enforcement and licensing across various jurisdictions. further, as an entity operating in the financial services sector, gm financial is required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations that may be costly to adhere to and may affect our consolidated operating results. compliance with these laws and regulations requires that gm financial maintain forms, processes, procedures, controls and the infrastructure to support these requirements and these laws and regulations often create operational constraints both on gm financial's ability to implement servicing procedures and on pricing. laws in the financial services industry are designed primarily for the protection of consumers. the failure to comply with these laws could result in significant statutory civil and criminal penalties, monetary damages, attorneys' fees and costs, possible revocation of licenses and damage to reputation, brand and valued customer relationships. our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, changes in laws or regulations, changes in assumptions or investments that do not achieve adequate returns. our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. a detailed description of the investment funds and strategies and our potential funding requirements are disclosed in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. our future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit pension plans depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in laws and regulations. future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, assuming other factors are held constant. we estimate future contributions to these plans using assumptions with respect to these and other items. changes to those assumptions could have a significant effect on future contributions. there are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market liquidity in particular asset classes and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. 16 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries factors which affect future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-u.s. plans. certain plans outside the u.s. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our non-u.s. plans, we could be required to contribute more funds. * * * * * * * quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the chief financial officer with support from the financial risk council which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. the financial risk council comprises members of our management and functions under the oversight of the audit committee and finance committee of the board of directors. the audit committee and finance committee assist and guide the board of directors in its oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. a risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the financial risk council. our financial risk management policy is designed to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures. automotive the following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. the models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates and interest rate yield curves. for options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect 41 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries of market shifts. there are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, due primarily to the assumption that interest rates change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. in addition the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency exposures, offsetting long-short positions in currency or other exposures such as interest rates which may significantly reduce the potential loss in value. foreign currency exchange rate risk we have foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of our operations. at december 31, 2018 our most significant foreign currency exposures were between the u.s. dollar and the canadian dollar, brazilian real, euro, chinese yuan, australian dollar, mexican peso, and argentine peso. derivative instruments such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. such contracts had remaining maturities of up to 12 months at december 31, 2018 . the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $0.9 billion and $0.8 billion at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . these amounts are calculated utilizing a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and exclude the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would have been $0.1 billion at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . we are exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. we had foreign currency derivatives with notional amounts of $2.7 billion and $4.0 billion at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial condition. the following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement (gains) losses: years ended december 31, 2018 2017 translation (gains) losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 353 $ (275 ) transaction and remeasurement losses recorded in earnings $ 156 $ 43 interest rate risk we are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial instruments, primarily debt, capital lease obligations and certain marketable securities. we did not have any interest rate swap positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . the fair value liability of debt and capital leases was $13.5 billion and $15.1 billion at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . the potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would have been $0.8 billion and $0.7 billion at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . we had marketable securities of $6.0 billion and $8.3 billion classified as available-for-sale at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have had an insignificant effect at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . automotive financing - gm financial interest rate risk fluctuations in market interest rates can affect gm financial's gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between interest earned on finance receivables and interest paid on debt. typically retail finance receivables purchased by gm financial bear fixed interest rates and are funded by variable or fixed rate debt. commercial finance receivables originated by gm financial bear variable interest rates and are funded by variable rate debt. the variable rate debt is subject to adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to help mitigate interest rate risk or mismatched funding, gm financial may employ hedging strategies to lock in the interest rate spread. fixed interest rate receivables purchased by gm financial may be pledged to secure borrowings under its credit facilities. amounts borrowed under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to protect the interest rate spread within each credit facility, gm financial is contractually required to enter into interest rate cap agreements in connection with borrowings under its credit facilities. 42 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries in gm financial's securitization transactions it can transfer fixed rate finance receivables to securitization trusts that, in turn, sell either fixed rate or floating rate securities to investors. derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps and caps, are used to manage the gross interest rate spread on the floating rate transactions. quantitative disclosure we measure the sensitivity of our net interest income to changes in interest rates by using interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous parallel shift of one hundred basis points in all interest rates across all maturities, as well as a base case that assumes that rates perform at the current market forward curve. however, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in our analysis. therefore, the actual impact to net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent our view of future interest rate movements. under these interest rate scenarios, we are asset-sensitive, meaning that we expect more assets than liabilities to re-price within the next twelve months. during a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on our assets will increase more than the interest paid on our debt, which would initially increase our net interest income. during a period of falling interest rates, we would expect our net interest income to initially decrease. the following table presents our net interest income sensitivity to interest rate movement: years ended december 31, 2018 2017 one hundred basis points instantaneous increase in interest rates $ 10.7 $ 19.4 one hundred basis points instantaneous decrease in interest rates(a) $ (10.7 ) $ (19.4 ) __________ (a) net interest income sensitivity given a one hundred basis point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. additional model assumptions the sensitivity analysis presented is our best estimate of the effect of the hypothetical interest rate scenarios; however, our actual results could differ. our estimates are also based on assumptions including the amortization and prepayment of the finance receivable portfolio, originations of finance receivables and leases, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives and exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives. our prepayment projections are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, our actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. foreign currency exchange rate risk gm financial is exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect gm financial's financial condition. gm financial primarily finances its receivables and leased assets with debt in the same currency. when a different currency is used gm financial may use foreign currency swaps to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local currency of the receivables and lease assets to minimize any impact to earnings. gm financial had foreign currency swaps with notional amounts of $3.9 billion and $ 2.8 billion at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. the following table summarizes gm financial's foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement (gains) losses: years ended december 31, 2018 2017 translation (gains) losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 291 $ (474 ) transaction and remeasurement losses, net recorded in earnings $ 12 $ 9 * * * * * * * 43 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm to the shareholders and the board of directors of general motors company opinion on the financial statements we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and equity for the year ended december 31, 2018, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the consolidated financial statements ). in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the company at december 31, 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended december 31, 2018, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) (pcaob), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (2013 framework) and our report dated february 6, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. adoption of accounting standards update (asu) no. 2014-09 as discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the company changed its method of accounting for revenue from contracts with customers in 2018 due to the adoption of asu no. 2014-09, "revenue from contracts with customers," as amended. basis for opinion these financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's financial statements based on our audit. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. our audit included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. our audit also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. / / ernst &amp; young llp we have served as the company's auditor since 2017. detroit, michigan february 6, 2019 44 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm to the shareholders and the board of directors of general motors company opinion on internal control over financial reporting we have audited general motors company and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (2013 framework) (the coso criteria). in our opinion, general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2018, based on the coso criteria. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) (pcaob), the consolidated balance sheet of the company as of december 31, 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for the year ended december 31, 2018, and the related notes and our report dated february 6, 2019 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. basis for opinion the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. / / ernst &amp; young llp detroit, michigan february 6, 2019 45 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm to the shareholders and the board of directors of general motors company: opinion on the financial statements we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of general motors company and subsidiaries (the "company") as of december 31, 2017, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and equity for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). in our opinion, the 2017 and 2016 financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the company as of december 31, 2017, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. basis for opinion these financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's financial statements based on our audits. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. / / deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 6, 2018 (july 25, 2018 as to note 25, segment reporting ) we began serving as the company's auditor in 1918. in 2018 we became the predecessor auditor. 46 table of contents general motors company and subsidiariesrisk factors 10 risk factors for further discussion of these risks. environmental and regulatory matters automotive criteria emissions control our products are subject to laws and regulations globally that require us to control certain non-ghg automotive emissions, including vehicle and engine exhaust emission standards, vehicle evaporative emission standards and onboard diagnostic (obd) system requirements. emission requirements have become more stringent as a result of stricter standards and new diagnostic requirements that have come into force in many markets around the world, often with very little harmonization. while we believe all of our products are designed and manufactured in material compliance with substantially all vehicle emissions requirements, regulatory authorities may conduct ongoing evaluations of products from all manufacturers. the u.s. federal government, through the environmental protection agency (epa), imposes stringent exhaust and evaporative emission control requirements on vehicles sold in the u.s. the california air resources board (carb) likewise imposes stringent exhaust and evaporative emission standards. these emission control standards will likely increase the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle's emission performance. the clean air act permits states that have areas with air quality compliance issues to adopt california emission standards in lieu of federal requirements. fourteen states and the district of columbia have adopted california emission standards, and there is a possibility that additional u.s. jurisdictions could adopt california emission requirements in the future. the canadian federal government's current vehicle pollutant emission requirements are generally aligned with those of the u.s. federal requirements. each model year we must obtain certification that our vehicles and heavy-duty engines will meet emission requirements of the epa before we can sell vehicles in the u.s. and canada, and of carb before we can sell vehicles in california and other states that have adopted the california emission requirements. in 2019, certain areas within china began implementation of the china 6 emission standard (china 6) requirements. china 6 combines elements of both european union (eu) and u.s. standards and increases the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle's emission performance. nationwide implementation of china 6a for new registrations is expected in july 2020, and the more stringent china 6b is expected to be implemented in july 2023. localities can implement china 6 requirements earlier than the nationwide deadlines if certain enabling criteria are met. for additional information, refer to item 1a. risk factors. brazil has recently approved a new set of national emissions standards named l7, to be implemented in 2022, and l8, to be implemented in 2025. l7 standards include exhaust, durability, evaporative and noise limits, new obd requirements and a phase-in for onboard refueling vapor recovery systems. l8 standards include emission targets for real driving emissions and reduce exhaust limits every two years until 2031. many of the requirements are aligned with those of the epa. as a result of the sale of the opel/vauxhall business, gm's vehicle presence in europe is smaller, but gm may still be affected by actions taken by regulators related both to opel/vauxhall vehicles sold before the sale of the opel/vauxhall business as well as to other vehicles gm continues to sell in europe. in the eu, increased scrutiny of compliance with emissions standards may result in changes to these standards, including implementation of real driving emissions tests, as well as stricter interpretations or redefinition of these standards and more rigorous enforcement. for example, our former german subsidiary has participated in 5 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries continuing discussions with german and european authorities concerning emissions control systems. for additional information, refer to note 22 to our consolidated financial statements. automotive fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions in the u.s., the national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa) promulgates and enforces corporate average fuel economy (cafe) standards for three separate fleets: domestically produced cars, imported cars and light-duty trucks. manufacturers are subject to substantial civil penalties if they fail to meet the applicable cafe standard in any model year, after considering all available credits for the preceding five model years, expected credits for the three succeeding model years and credits obtained from other manufacturers. the amount of these civil penalties is the subject of litigation currently pending in the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit. in addition to federal cafe standards, the epa promulgates and enforces ghg emission standards, which are effectively fuel economy standards because the majority of vehicle ghg emissions are carbon dioxide emissions that are emitted in direct proportion to the amount of fuel consumed by a vehicle. the epa and nhtsa also regulate the fuel efficiency and ghg emissions of medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, imposing more stringent standards over time. in addition, carb has asserted the right to promulgate and enforce its own state ghg standards for motor vehicles, and other states have asserted the right to adopt carb's standards. carb regulations previously stated that compliance with the epa light-duty program is deemed compliance with carb standards. however, on december 12, 2018, carb amended this regulation to state that, in the event the epa alters federal ghg stringency, compliance with the epa's ghg emissions standards will no longer be deemed compliance with carb's separate requirements. likewise, nhtsa and the epa have recently issued a rule asserting that california is preempted from regulating ghg emissions, which is currently being challenged through litigation. as a result, depending on the outcome of the federal cafe and ghg rulemaking and related litigation and the finality of carb's regulatory amendment, in the future gm might be required to meet california ghg standards that are different than the epa standards. carb has also imposed the requirement that increasing percentages of zero emission vehicles (zevs) must be sold in california. the clean air act permits states to adopt california emission standards, and 11 have adopted the zev requirements. the epa has recently revoked the waiver it had granted to california that permitted its zev program. depending on the finality of that revocation, there is a possibility that additional u.s. jurisdictions could adopt california zev requirements in the future. in canada, light- and heavy-duty ghg regulations are currently patterned after the epa ghg emissions standards. however, the canadian government will be conducting a mid-term review of its 2022 to 2025 model year light-duty ghg standards and there is an increased risk that future canadian light-duty ghg regulations may not be aligned with the epa regulations. in addition, the canadian province of quebec has adopted zev requirements for the 2018 to 2025 model years largely based on california program requirements. the province of british columbia also passed legislation in may 2019 to enable similar zev regulations in the near term, and governments in canada could adopt additional zev requirements in the future. china has two fuel economy requirements for passenger vehicles: an individual vehicle pass-fail type approval requirement and a fleet average fuel consumption requirement. with a focus on the fleet average program, the current china phase 4 fleet average fuel consumption requirement, which went into effect in 2016, is based on curb weight with full compliance required by 2020. china phase 4 has continued subsidies for plug-in hybrid, battery electric and fuel cell vehicles, which are referred to as new energy vehicles (nevs). china phase 5 has been developed with a planned start in 2021 and full compliance is required by 2025. in addition, china has established an nev mandate that will require passenger car manufacturers to produce a certain volume of nevs to generate credits in 2019 and beyond to offset internal combustion engine vehicle production volume. the number of credits per car is based on the level of electric range and energy efficiency, with the goal of increasing nev volume penetrations. uncommitted nev credits may be used to assist compliance with the fleet average fuel consumption requirement. china has set forth nev credit targets for 2019 and 2020 and is setting forth new nev credit targets aiming at further increasing volumes of nevs between 2021 and 2025. in brazil, the secretary of industry and development promulgates and enforces cafe standards and has recently enforced a new cafe program for the period october 2020 to september 2026 and october 2026 to september 2032 for light-duty and mid-size trucks and sport utility vehicles (suvs), including diesel vehicles, imposing more stringent standards for each period. regulators in other jurisdictions have already adopted or are developing fuel economy or carbon dioxide regulations. if regulators in these jurisdictions seek to impose and enforce standards that are misaligned with market conditions, we may be forced to take various actions to increase market support programs for certain vehicles and curtail production of others in order to achieve compliance. we regularly evaluate our current and future product plans and strategies for compliance with fuel economy and ghg regulations. 6 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries industrial environmental control our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws including those regulating air emissions, water discharge, waste management and environmental cleanup. certain environmental statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. under certain circumstances these laws impose joint and several liability as well as liability for related damages to natural resources. to mitigate the effects of our worldwide operations on the environment, we are converting as many of our worldwide operations as practicable to landfill-free operations, which reduces ghg emissions associated with waste disposal. at december 31, 2019 , 58 (or 45%) of our manufacturing operations and 36 (or 38%) of our non-manufacturing operations were landfill-free. at our landfill-free manufacturing operations, 90% of waste materials are composted, reused or recycled and 8% are converted to energy at waste-to-energy facilities. we estimate that our waste reduction program diverted 1.2 million metric tons of waste from landfills in 2019, resulting in 5.6 million metric tons of ghg emissions avoided in global manufacturing operations, including construction, demolition and remediation wastes. in addition to minimizing our impact on the environment, our landfill-free program and total waste reduction commitments generate income from the sale of production by-products, reduce our use of material and help to reduce the risks and financial liabilities associated with waste disposal. we continue our efforts to increase our use of renewable energy, improve our energy efficiency and work to drive growth and scale of renewables. we are committed to meeting the electricity needs of our operations worldwide with renewable energy by 2040, pulling forward our previous commitment by 10 years. through december 31, 2019 , we implemented projects and signed renewable energy contracts globally that brought our total renewable energy capacity to over 400 megawatts, which represents approximately 20% of our global electricity use. in 2019, we executed our largest green tariff to date with dte energy company, sourcing 300,000 megawatt hours of renewable energy that will begin supplying us in early 2021. we continue to seek opportunities for a diversified renewable energy portfolio including wind, solar, and landfill gas. in 2019 energy star certified one assembly plant in canada through natural resources canada and eight buildings in the u.s. for superior energy management. we also met the epa energy star challenge for industry (epa challenge) at two additional sites globally by reducing energy intensity an average of 11% at these sites within two years. to meet the epa challenge, industrial sites must reduce energy intensity by 10% within a five year period. in total, 73 gm-owned manufacturing sites have met the epa challenge, with many sites achieving the goal multiple times for a total of 131 recognitions. additionally, we received recognition from the u.s. department of energy (doe) of 50001 ready status for 27 facilities. the u.s. doe 50001 ready program is a self-guided approach for facilities to establish an energy management system and self-attest to the structure of iso 50001, a voluntary global standard for energy management systems in industrial, commercial and institutional facilities. these efforts minimize our utility expenses and are part of our approach to address climate change by setting a ghg emissions reduction target, collecting accurate data, following our business plan to operate more efficiently and publicly reporting progress against our target. chemical regulations we continually monitor the implementation of chemical regulations to maintain compliance and evaluate their effect on our business, suppliers and the automotive industry. globally, governmental agencies continue to introduce new legislation and regulations related to the selection and use of chemicals by mandating broad prohibitions or restrictions and implementing green chemistry, life cycle analysis and product stewardship initiatives. these initiatives give broad regulatory authority to ban or restrict the use of certain chemical substances and potentially affect automobile manufacturers' responsibilities for vehicle components at the end of a vehicle's life, as well as chemical selection for product development and manufacturing. global treaties and initiatives such as the stockholm, basel and rotterdam conventions on chemicals and waste and the minamata convention on mercury, are driving chemical regulations across signatory countries. in addition, more global jurisdictions are establishing substance standards with regard to vehicle interior air quality. chemical regulations are increasing in north america. in the u.s. the epa is moving forward with risk analysis and management of high priority chemicals under the authority of the 2016 lautenberg chemical safety for the 21st century act, and several u.s. states have chemical management regulations that can affect vehicle design such as the california and washington laws banning the use of copper in brake friction material. chemical restrictions in canada continue to steadily progress as a result of environment and climate change canada's chemical management plan to assess existing substances and implement risk management controls on any chemical deemed toxic. china prohibits the use of several chemical substances in vehicles. there are also various regulations in china stipulating the requirements for chemical management. among other things, these regulations restrict the use, import and export of various chemical substances. the failure of our joint venture partners or our suppliers to comply with these regulations could disrupt production in china or prevent our joint venture partners from selling the affected products in the china market. 7 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries these emerging laws and regulations will potentially lead to increases in costs and supply chain complexity. we believe that we are materially in compliance with substantially all of these requirements or expect to be materially in compliance by the required dates. safety in the u.s. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 prohibits the sale of any new vehicle or equipment in the u.s. that does not conform to applicable vehicle safety standards established by nhtsa. if we or nhtsa determine that either a vehicle or vehicle equipment does not comply with a safety standard or if a vehicle defect creates an unreasonable safety risk, the manufacturer is required to notify owners and provide a remedy. we are required to report certain information relating to certain customer complaints, warranty claims, field reports and notices and claims involving property damage, injuries and fatalities in the u.s. and claims involving fatalities outside the u.s. we are also required to report certain information concerning safety recalls and other safety campaigns outside the u.s. outside the u.s. safety standards and recall regulations often have the same purpose as the u.s. standards but may differ in their requirements and test procedures, adding complexity to regulatory compliance. automotive financing - gm financial gm financial is our global captive automotive finance company and our global provider of automobile finance solutions. gm financial conducts its business in north america, south america and through joint ventures in asia/pacific. gm financial provides retail loan and lease lending across the credit spectrum. additionally, gm financial offers commercial lending products to dealers including new and used vehicle inventory floorplan financing and dealer loans, which are loans to finance improvements to dealership facilities, to provide working capital, and to purchase and/or finance dealership real estate. other commercial lending products include financing for parts and accessories, dealer fleets and storage centers. in north america, gm financial offers a sub-prime lending program. the program is primarily offered to consumers with a fico score or its equivalent of less than 620 who have limited access to automobile financing through banks and credit unions and is expected to sustain a higher level of credit losses than prime lending. gm financial generally seeks to fund its operations in each country through local sources to minimize currency and country risk. gm financial primarily finances its loan, lease and commercial origination volume through the use of secured and unsecured credit facilities, through securitization transactions and through the issuance of unsecured debt in public markets. employees at december 31, 2019 we employed approximately 95,000 ( 58% ) hourly employees and approximately 69,000 ( 42% ) salaried employees. at december 31, 2019 approximately 48,000 ( 50% ) of our u.s. employees were represented by unions, a majority of which were represented by the international union, united automobile, aerospace and agriculture implement workers of america (uaw). the following table summarizes worldwide employment (in thousands): december 31, 2019 gmna(a) 117 gmi 37 gm financial 10 total worldwide 164 u.s. - salaried 48 u.s. - hourly 48 __________ (a) includes cruise. 8 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries information about our executive officers as of february 5, 2020 the names and ages of our executive officers and their positions with gm are as follows: name (age) present gm position (effective date) positions held during the past five years (effective date) mary t. barra (58) chairman and chief executive officer (2016) chief executive officer and member of the board of directors (2014) barry l. engle (56) executive vice president and president, north america (2019) executive vice president and president, the americas (2019) executive vice president and president, gm international (2018) executive vice president and president, south america (2015) agility fuel systems, chief executive officer (2011) craig b. glidden (62) executive vice president and general counsel (2015) lyondellbasell, executive vice president and chief legal officer (2009) christopher t. hatto (49) vice president, global business solutions and chief accounting officer (2020) vice president, controller and chief accounting officer (2018) chief financial officer, u.s. sales operations (2016) chief financial officer, customer care and aftersales (2013) gerald johnson (57) executive vice president, global manufacturing (2019) vice president, north america manufacturing and labor relations (2017) vice president of operational excellence (2014) randall d. mott (63) executive vice president, global information technology and chief information officer (2019) senior vice president, global information technology and chief information officer (2013) douglas l. parks (58) executive vice president, global product development, purchasing and supply chain (2019) vice president, autonomous and electric vehicles (2017) vice president, autonomous technology and vehicle execution (2016) vice president, global product programs (2012) mark l. reuss (56) president (2019) executive vice president and president, global product development group and cadillac (2018) executive vice president, global product development, purchasing &amp; supply chain (2014) dhivya suryadevara (40) executive vice president and chief financial officer (2018) vice president, corporate finance (2017) vice president, finance and treasurer (2015) chief executive officer, gm asset management (2013) matthew tsien (59) executive vice president and president, gm china (2014) there are no family relationships between any of the officers named above and there is no arrangement or understanding between any of the officers named above and any other person pursuant to which he or she was selected as an officer. each of the officers named above was elected by the board of directors to hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. website access to our reports our internet website address is www.gm.com. in addition to the information about us and our subsidiaries contained in this 2019 form 10-k, information about us can be found on our website including information on our corporate governance principles and practices. our investor relations website at https://investor.gm.com contains a significant amount of information about us, including financial and other information for investors. we encourage investors to visit our website, as we frequently update and post new information about our company on our website and it is possible that this information could be deemed to be material information. our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this 2019 form 10-k. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (exchange act), are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission (sec). * * * * * * * 9 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries item 1a. risk factors we have listed below the most significant risk factors applicable to us. these risk factors are not necessarily in the order of importance or probability of occurrence: if we do not deliver new products, services and customer experiences in response to increased competition in the automotive industry, our business could suffer. we believe that the automotive industry will continue to experience significant change in the coming years. in addition to our traditional competitors, we must also be responsive to the entrance of non-traditional participants in the automotive industry. industry participants are disrupting the historic business model of our industry through the introduction of new technologies, products, services and methods of travel and vehicle ownership. it is strategically significant that we succeed in leading the technological disruption occurring in our industry, including consumer adoption of electric vehicles and commercialization of autonomous vehicles in a rideshare environment. to successfully execute our long-term strategy, we must continue to develop new products and services, including products and services that are outside of our historically core business, such as autonomous and electric vehicles, digital services and transportation as a service. the process of designing and developing new technology, products and services is complex, costly and uncertain and requires extensive capital investment and the ability to retain and recruit talent. there can be no assurance that advances in technology will occur in a timely or feasible way, or that others will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or that we will acquire technologies on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. if we do not adequately prepare for and respond to new kinds of technological innovations, market developments and changing customer needs, our sales, profitability and long-term competitiveness may be harmed. our ability to maintain profitability is dependent upon our ability to timely fund and introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers. we operate in a very competitive industry with market participants routinely introducing new and improved vehicle models and features designed to meet rapidly evolving consumer expectations. producing new and improved vehicle models that preserve our reputation for designing, building and selling safe, high-quality cars and trucks is critical to our long-term profitability. successful launches of our new vehicles are critical to our short-term profitability. it generally takes two years or more to design and develop a new vehicle, and a number of factors may lengthen that time period. because of this product development cycle and the various elements that may contribute to consumers' acceptance of new vehicle designs, including competitors' product introductions, technological innovations, fuel prices, general economic conditions and changes in quality, safety, reliability and styling demands and preferences, an initial product concept or design may not result in a vehicle that generates sales in sufficient quantities and at high enough prices to be profitable. our high proportion of fixed costs, both due to our significant investment in property, plant and equipment as well as other requirements of our collective bargaining agreements, which limit our flexibility to adjust personnel costs to changes in demands for our products, may further exacerbate the risks associated with incorrectly assessing demand for our vehicles. our profitability is dependent upon the success of suvs and full-size pick-up trucks. while we offer a portfolio of cars, crossovers, suvs and trucks, we generally recognize higher profit margins on our suvs and trucks. our success is dependent upon our ability to sell higher margin vehicles in sufficient volumes. any shift in consumer preferences toward smaller, more fuel- efficient vehicles, whether as a result of increases in the price of oil or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of global political instability, or other reasons, could weaken the demand for our higher margin vehicles. more stringent fuel economy regulations could also impact our ability to sell these vehicles. we may continue to restructure our operations in the u.s. and various other countries and initiate additional cost reduction actions, but we may not succeed in doing so. since 2017, we have undertaken restructuring actions to lower our operating costs in response to difficult market and operating conditions in various parts of the world, including the u.s., canada, korea and europe. as we continue to assess our performance throughout our regions, we may take additional restructuring actions to rationalize our operations, which may result in material asset write-downs or impairments and reduce our profitability in the periods incurred. in addition, we are continuing to implement a number of operating effectiveness initiatives to improve productivity and reduce costs. for example, we are continuing to execute on the transformation actions we announced in 2018 to drive significant cost efficiencies and realign our current manufacturing capacity with demand. while we have achieved significant cost savings, there is no guarantee that we will fully realize the anticipated savings or benefits from past or future restructuring and/or cost reduction actions within the time periods we expect or at all. in addition, these restructuring actions subject us to increased risks of labor unrest or strikes, supplier, dealer, or other third-party litigation, regulator claims or proceedings, negative publicity and business disruption. failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from our restructuring and/or cost reduction actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. our electric vehicle strategy is dependent upon our ability to reduce the cost of manufacturing electric vehicles, as well as increased consumer adoption. we anticipate that the production and profitable sale of electric vehicles will become increasingly 10 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries important to our business. if we are unable to reduce the costs associated with the manufacture of battery-electric vehicles, it may negatively impact our earnings and financial condition. our ability to benefit from certain government and economic incentives supporting the development and sale of electric vehicles has been reduced and, in some jurisdictions, eliminated or exhausted, which may negatively affect our ability to profitably sell electric vehicles. in addition, our sale of electric vehicles is dependent on consumer adoption, which could be impacted by numerous factors, including perceptions about electric vehicle features, quality, safety, performance and cost; perceptions about the range over which electric vehicles may be driven on a single battery charge; high fuel-economy internal combustion engine vehicles; volatility in the cost of fuel; government regulations and economic incentives; and access to charging facilities. our autonomous vehicle strategy is dependent upon our ability to successfully mitigate unique technological, operational, and regulatory risks. in recent years, we announced significant investments in autonomous vehicle technologies, including in gm cruise holdings llc (cruise holdings), our majority-owned subsidiary that is responsible for the development and commercialization of autonomous vehicle technology. our autonomous vehicle operations are capital intensive and subject to a variety of risks inherent with the development of new technologies, including our ability to continue to develop self-driving software and hardware, such as light detection and ranging (lidar) sensors and other components; access to sufficient capital, including with respect to additional softbank funding; risks related to the manufacture of purpose-built autonomous vehicles; and significant competition from both established automotive companies and technology companies, some of which may have more resources and capital to devote to autonomous vehicle technologies than we do. in addition, we face risks related to the commercial deployment of autonomous vehicles on our targeted timeline or at all, including consumer acceptance, achievement of adequate safety and other performance standards and compliance with uncertain, evolving and potentially conflicting federal and state or provincial regulations. to the extent accidents, cybersecurity breaches or other adverse events associated with our autonomous driving systems occur, we could be subject to liability, government scrutiny and further regulation. any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. our business is highly dependent upon global automobile market sales volume, which can be volatile. because we have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, small changes in sales volume can have a disproportionately large effect on our profitability. a number of economic and market conditions drive changes in vehicle sales, including real estate values, the availability and prices of used vehicles, levels of unemployment, availability of affordable financing, fluctuations in the cost of fuel, consumer confidence, political unrest, the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, such as the novel coronavirus, barriers to trade and other global economic conditions. while we cannot predict future economic and market conditions with certainty, we expect u.s. and china industry sales volumes to be lower in 2020 relative to 2019. for a discussion of economic and market trends, see the overview section of the md&amp;a. our significant business in china subjects us to unique operational, competitive and regulatory risks. maintaining a strong position in the chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. our business in china is subject to aggressive competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous domestic manufacturers as well as non-traditional market participants, such as domestic technology companies. in addition, our success in china depends upon our ability to adequately address unique market and consumer preferences driven by advancements related to infotainment and other new technologies. increased competition, increased u.s.-china trade restrictions and weakening economic conditions in china, among other things, may result in price reductions, reduced sales, profitability and margins, and challenges to gain or hold market share. chinese regulators have implemented increasingly aggressive green policy initiatives and recommended quotas for the sale of electric vehicles, which have challenging lead times. certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in china are solely within the control of the chinese government, and chinese law regulates the scope of our investments and business conducted within china. in order to maintain access to the chinese market, we may be required to comply with significant technical and other regulatory requirements that are unique to the chinese market, at times with challenging lead times to implement such requirements. these actions may increase the cost of doing business in china and reduce our profitability. a significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. many of our operations, primarily in china and korea, are carried out by joint ventures. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and may compete with us outside the joint venture. joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions that must further take into consideration our partners' interests. in joint ventures we are required to foster our relationships with our co-owners as well as promote the overall success of the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, relationships deteriorate or strategic objectives diverge, our success in the 11 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries joint venture may be materially adversely affected. the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, therefore we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. in addition, because we share ownership and management with one or more parties, we may have limited control over the actions of a joint venture, particularly when we own a minority interest. as a result, we may be unable to prevent violations of applicable laws or other misconduct by a joint venture or the failure to satisfy contractual obligations by one or more parties. moreover, a joint venture may not follow the same requirements regarding compliance, internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. to the extent another party makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control issues arise within the joint venture, we may have to take responsive or other actions or we may be subject to penalties, fines or other related actions for these activities. the international scale and footprint of our operations expose us to additional risks. we manufacture, sell and service products globally and rely upon an integrated global supply chain to deliver the raw materials, components, systems and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our global operations subject us to extensive domestic and foreign legal and regulatory requirements, and a variety of other political, economic and regulatory risks including: (1) changes in government leadership; (2) changes in labor, employment, tax, privacy, environmental and other laws, regulations or government policies impacting our overall business model or practices or restricting our ability to manufacture, purchase or sell products consistent with market demand and our business objectives; (3) political pressures to change any aspect of our business model or practices or that impair our ability to source raw materials, services, components, systems and parts, or manufacture products on competitive terms in a manner consistent with our business objectives; (4) political instability, civil unrest or government controls over certain sectors; (5) political and economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade policies, including restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between china or canada and the u.s.; (6) more detailed inspections or new or higher tariffs, for example, on products imported into or exported from the u.s., including under section 232 of the trade expansion act of 1962, section 301 of the u.s. trade act of 1974, or other trade measures; (7) new barriers to entry or domestic preference procurement requirements, including changes to, withdrawals from or impediments to implementing free trade agreements (for example, the north american free trade agreement or its successor, the united states-mexico-canada agreement), or preferences of foreign nationals for domestically manufactured products; (8) changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly in brazil and argentina, and interest rates; (9) economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, or significant changes in conditions in the countries in which we operate; (10) differing local product preferences and product requirements, including government certification requirements related to, among other things, fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety; (11) impact of compliance with u.s. and foreign countries' export controls and economic sanctions; (12) liabilities resulting from u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those related to the foreign corrupt practices act and certain other anti-corruption laws; (13) differing labor regulations, requirements and union relationships; (14) differing dealer and franchise regulations and relationships; (15) difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and (16) natural disasters, public health crises, including the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, such as the novel coronavirus, and other catastrophic events. any significant disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could disrupt our production schedule. we assemble vehicles at various facilities around the world. our facilities are typically designed to produce particular models for particular geographic markets. no single facility is designed to manufacture our full range of vehicles. in some cases, certain facilities produce products, systems, components and parts that disproportionately contribute a greater degree to our profitability than others and create significant interdependencies among manufacturing facilities around the world. should these or other facilities become unavailable either temporarily or permanently for any number of reasons, including labor disruptions, the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, such as the novel coronavirus, or catastrophic weather events, the inability to manufacture at the affected facility may result in harm to our reputation, increased costs, lower revenues and the loss of customers. in particular, substantially all of our hourly employees are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements that must be negotiated from time-to-time, often at the local facility level, which increases our risk of work stoppages. we may not be able to easily shift production to other facilities or to make up for lost production. any new facility needed to replace an inoperable manufacturing facility would need to comply with the necessary regulatory requirements, need to satisfy our specialized manufacturing requirements and require specialized equipment. any disruption in our suppliers' operations could disrupt our production schedule. our automotive operations are dependent upon the continued ability of our suppliers to deliver the systems, components, raw materials and parts that we need to manufacture our products. our use of just-in-time manufacturing processes allows us to maintain minimal inventory. as a result, our ability to maintain production is dependent upon our suppliers delivering sufficient quantities of systems, components, raw materials and parts on time to meet our production schedules. in some instances, we purchase systems, components, raw materials and parts that are ultimately derived from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply disruptions. any number of factors, including 12 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries labor disruptions, catastrophic weather events, the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, such as the novel coronavirus, contractual or other disputes, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, delivery delays or other performance problems or financial difficulties or solvency problems, could disrupt our suppliers' operations and lead to uncertainty in our supply chain or cause supply disruptions for us, which could, in turn, disrupt our operations, including the production of certain higher margin vehicles. in particular, if the current novel coronavirus outbreak continues and results in a prolonged period of travel, commercial and other similar restrictions, we could experience global supply disruptions. if we experience supply disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly. any disruption of our production schedule caused by an unexpected shortage of systems, components, raw materials or parts even for a relatively short period of time could cause us to alter production schedules or suspend production entirely, which could cause a loss of revenues, which would adversely affect our operations. high prices of raw materials or other inputs used by us and our suppliers could negatively impact our profitability. increases in prices for raw materials or other inputs that we and our suppliers use in manufacturing products, systems, components and parts, such as steel, precious metals, or non-ferrous metals, including aluminum, copper and plastic, may lead to higher production costs for parts, components and vehicles. changes in trade policies and tariffs, fluctuations in supply and demand and other economic and political factors may continue to create pricing pressure for raw materials and other inputs. this could, in turn, negatively impact our future profitability because we may not be able to pass all of those costs on to our customers or require our suppliers to absorb such costs. we operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. the global automotive industry is highly competitive in terms of the quality, innovation, new technologies, pricing, fuel economy, reliability, safety, customer service and financial services offered. additionally, overall manufacturing capacity in the industry far exceeds current demand. many manufacturers, including gm, have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. in light of such excess capacity and high fixed costs, many of our competitors have attempted to sell more vehicles by providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering marketing incentives or reducing vehicle prices. as a result, we may be required to offer similar incentives, which may not necessarily allow us to set vehicle prices that offset cost increases or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations. our competitors may also seek to benefit from economies of scale by consolidating or entering into other strategic agreements such as alliances or joint ventures intended to enhance their competitiveness. manufacturers in countries that have lower production costs, such as china and india, have become competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention to export their products to established markets as a low-cost alternative to established entry-level automobiles. in addition, foreign governments may decide to implement tax and other policies that favor their domestic manufacturers at the expense of international manufacturers, including gm and its joint venture partners. these actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share and operating results. competitors may independently develop products and services similar to ours, and there are no guarantees that gm's intellectual property rights would prevent competitors from independently developing or selling those products and services. there may be instances where, notwithstanding our intellectual property position, competitive products or services may impact the value of our brands and other intangible assets, and our business may be adversely affected. moreover, although gm takes reasonable steps to maintain the confidentiality of gm proprietary information, there can be no assurance that such efforts will completely deter or prevent misappropriation or improper use of our technology. we sometimes face attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology networks and systems for the purpose of improperly acquiring our trade secrets or confidential business information. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position. in addition, we may be the target of patent enforcement actions by third parties, including aggressive and opportunistic enforcement claims by non-practicing entities. regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. although we have taken steps to mitigate such risks, if we are found to have infringed any third-party rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from offering some of our products and services. security breaches and other disruptions to information technology systems and networked products, including connected vehicles, owned or maintained by us, gm financial, or third-party vendors or suppliers on our behalf, could interfere with our operations and could compromise the confidentiality of private customer data or our proprietary information. we rely upon information technology systems and manufacture networked products, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, activities and products. additionally, we and gm financial collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property and proprietary business information (including that of our dealers and suppliers), as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and 13 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries employees, in data centers and on information technology networks (including networks that may be controlled or maintained by third parties). the secure operation of these systems and products, and the processing and maintenance of the information processed by these systems and products, is critical to our business operations and strategy. further, customers using our systems rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our products and the protection of their data. despite security measures and business continuity plans, these systems and products may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns caused by attacks by hackers, computer viruses, malware (including ransomware ), phishing attacks or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to these systems and products. the occurrence of any of these events could compromise the confidentiality, operational integrity and accessibility of these systems and products and the data that resides therein. similarly, such an occurrence could result in the compromise or loss of the information processed by these systems and products. such events could result in, among other things, the loss of proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our business operations and damage to our reputation. in addition, such events could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information; disrupt operations; or reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in advanced technologies. we have experienced such events in the past and, although past events were immaterial, future events may occur and may be material. portions of our information technology systems also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors due to regular maintenance efforts, such as systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to design, manufacture and sell products and services, and interrupt other business processes. security breaches and other disruptions of our in-vehicle systems could impact the safety of our customers and reduce confidence in gm and our products . our vehicles contain complex information technology systems. these systems control various vehicle functions including engine, transmission, safety, steering, navigation, acceleration, braking, window and door lock functions. we have designed, implemented and tested security measures intended to prevent unauthorized access to these systems. however, hackers have reportedly attempted, and may attempt in the future, to gain unauthorized access to modify, alter and use such systems to gain control of, or to change, our vehicles' functionality, user interface and performance characteristics, or to gain access to data stored in or generated by the vehicle. any unauthorized access to or control of our vehicles or their system could adversely impact the safety of our customers or result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties. in addition, regardless of their veracity, reports of unauthorized access to our vehicles or their systems could negatively affect our brand and harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. our enterprise data practices, including the collection, use, sharing, and security of the personal identifiable information of our customers, employees, or suppliers are subject to increasingly complex, restrictive, and punitive regulations in all key market regions . under these regulations, the failure to maintain compliant data practices could result in consumer complaints and regulatory inquiry, resulting in civil or criminal penalties, as well as brand impact or other harm to our business. in addition, increased consumer sensitivity to real or perceived failures in maintaining acceptable data practices could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users or customers from using our products and services. because many of these laws are new, there is little clarity as to their interpretation, as well as a lack of precedent for the scope of enforcement. the cost of compliance with these laws and regulations will be high and is likely to increase in the future. for example, in europe, the general data protection regulation came into effect on may 25, 2018, and applies to all of our ongoing operations in the eu as well as some of our operations outside of the eu that involve the processing of eu personal data. this regulation significantly increases the potential financial penalties for noncompliance, including fines of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. similar regulations are coming into effect in brazil and china, and in the u.s., california has adopted, and several states and provinces in canada are considering adopting, laws and regulations imposing obligations regarding personal data. in some cases, these laws provide a private right of action that would allow customers to bring suit directly against us for mishandling their data. our operations and products are subject to extensive laws, regulations and policies, including those related to vehicle emissions, fuel economy standards, and greenhouse gas emissions, that can significantly increase our costs and affect how we do business. we are significantly affected by governmental regulations on a global basis that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio, particularly regulations relating to emissions, fuel economy standards, and greenhouse gas emissions. meeting or exceeding many of these regulations is costly and often technologically challenging, especially because the standards are not harmonized across jurisdictions. we anticipate that the number and extent of these and other regulations, laws and policies, and the related costs and changes to our product portfolio, may increase significantly in the future, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about global climate change and its impact). these government regulatory requirements, among others, could significantly affect our plans for global product development and given 14 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries the uncertainty surrounding enforcement and regulatory definitions and interpretations, may result in substantial costs, including civil or criminal penalties. in addition, an evolving but un-harmonized emissions and fuel economy regulatory framework may limit or dictate the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. refer to the environmental and regulatory matters section of item 1. business for further information on regulatory and environmental requirements. we expect that to comply with fuel economy and emission control requirements we will be required to sell a significant volume of electric vehicles, and potentially develop and implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased costs. there are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, lack of sufficient consumer acceptance of new technologies and of changes in vehicle mix, lack of willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time. there is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such new technologies on a profitable basis or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. in the current uncertain regulatory framework, environmental liabilities for which we may be responsible and that are not reasonably estimable could be substantial. alleged violations of safety, fuel economy or emissions standards could result in legal proceedings, the recall of one or more of our products, negotiated remedial actions, fines, restricted product offerings or a combination of any of those items. any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our operations including facility idling, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue. in addition, many of our advanced technologies, including autonomous vehicles, present novel issues with which domestic and foreign regulators have only limited experience and will be subject to evolving regulatory frameworks. any current or future regulations in these areas could impact whether and how these technologies are designed and integrated into our products, and may ultimately subject us to increased costs and uncertainty. we could be materially adversely affected by unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations or other proceedings. we are subject to legal proceedings involving various issues, including product liability lawsuits, class action litigations alleging product defects, emissions litigation (both in the u.s. and elsewhere), stockholder litigation, labor and employment litigation in various countries (including u.s., canada, korea and brazil), claims and actions arising from divestitures of operations and assets and proceedings related to the ignition switch recall. in addition, we are subject to governmental proceedings and investigations. a negative outcome in one or more of these legal proceedings could result in the imposition of damages, including punitive damages, substantial fines, significant reputational harm, civil lawsuits and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, modification of business practices, equitable remedies and other sanctions against us or our personnel as well as significant legal and other costs. in addition, we may become obligated to issue additional shares (adjustment shares) of up to 30 million shares of our common stock (subject to adjustment to take into account stock dividends, stock splits and other transactions) to the motors liquidation company (mlc) guc trust (guc trust) under a provision of the amended and restated master sale and purchase agreement between us and general motors corporation and certain of its subsidiaries in the event that allowed general unsecured claims against the guc trust, as estimated by the united states bankruptcy court for the southern district of new york (bankruptcy court), exceed $35.0 billion. the guc trust stated in public filings that allowed general unsecured claims were approximately $32.1 billion as of september 30, 2019. for a further discussion of these matters refer to note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. the costs and effect on our reputation of product safety recalls and alleged defects in products and services could materially adversely affect our business. government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy certain product safety defects through recall campaigns and vehicle repurchases. under these standards, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties or may incur various costs, including significant costs for repairs made at no cost to the consumer. at present, the costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. the costs to complete a recall could be exacerbated to the extent that such action relates to a global platform. concerns about the safety of our products, including advanced technologies like autonomous vehicles, whether raised internally or by regulators or consumer advocates, and whether or not based on scientific evidence or supported by data, can result in product delays, recalls, lost sales, governmental investigations, regulatory action, private claims, lawsuits and settlements, and reputational damage. these circumstances can also result in damage to brand image, brand equity and consumer trust in the company's products and ability to lead the disruption occurring in the automotive industry. 15 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries we currently source a variety of systems, components, raw materials and parts from third parties. from time to time these items may have performance or quality issues that could harm our reputation and cause us to incur significant costs, particularly if the affected items relate to global platforms or involve defects that are identified years after production. our ability to recover costs associated with recalls or other campaigns caused by parts or components purchased from suppliers may be limited by the suppliers' financial condition or a number of other reasons or defenses. we may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the u.s. and numerous other jurisdictions in which we do business. many judgments are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities, and we are regularly under audit by the u.s. internal revenue service and other tax authorities, which may not agree with our tax positions. in addition, our tax liabilities are subject to other significant risks and uncertainties, including those arising from potential changes in laws and/or regulations in the countries in which we do business, the possibility of adverse determinations with respect to the application of existing laws, changes in our business or structure and changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. any unfavorable resolution of these and other uncertainties may have a significant adverse impact on our tax rate and results of operations. if our tax expense were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. we rely on gm financial to provide financial services to our customers and dealers in north america, south america and asia/pacific. gm financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations, which in turn could impede its ability to provide leasing and financing to customers and commercial lending to our dealers. any reduction in gm financial's ability to provide such financial services would negatively affect our efforts to support additional sales of our vehicles and expand our market penetration among customers and dealers. the primary factors that could adversely affect gm financial's business and operations and reduce its ability to provide financing services at competitive rates include the sufficiency, availability and cost of sources of financing, including credit facilities, securitization programs and secured and unsecured debt issuances; the performance of loans and leases in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by charge-offs, delinquencies and prepayments; wholesale auction values of used vehicles; higher than expected vehicle return rates and the residual value performance on vehicles gm financial leases to customers; fluctuations in interest rates and currencies; competition for customers from commercial banks, credit unions and other financing and leasing companies; and changes to regulation, supervision, enforcement and licensing across various jurisdictions. in addition, a substantial portion of gm financial's indebtedness bears interest at variable interest rates, primarily based on usd-libor. the u.k. financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, has announced that it will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is unknown whether any banks will continue to voluntarily submit rates for the calculation of libor, or whether libor will continue to be published by its administrator based on these submissions or on any other basis, after 2021. at this time, it is not possible to predict the effect that these developments or any discontinuance, modification or other reforms may have on libor, other benchmarks or floating rate debt instruments, including gm financial's floating rate debt. any such discontinuance, modification, alternative reference rates or other reforms may materially adversely affect interest rates on gm financial's current or future indebtedness. there is a risk that the discontinuation of libor will impact gm financial's ability to manage interest rate risk effectively without an adequate replacement. further, as an entity operating in the financial services sector, gm financial is required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations that may be costly to adhere to and may affect our consolidated operating results. compliance with these laws and regulations requires that gm financial maintain forms, processes, procedures, controls and the infrastructure to support these requirements and these laws and regulations often create operational constraints both on gm financial's ability to implement servicing procedures and on pricing. laws in the financial services industry are designed primarily for the protection of consumers. the failure to comply with these laws could result in significant statutory civil and criminal penalties, monetary damages, attorneys' fees and costs, possible revocation of licenses and damage to reputation, brand and valued customer relationships. our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, changes in laws or regulations, changes in assumptions or investments that do not achieve adequate returns. our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. a detailed description of the investment funds and strategies and our potential funding requirements are disclosed in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. 16 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries our future funding requirements for our defined benefit pension plans depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in laws and regulations. future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected asset returns, assuming other factors are held constant. we estimate future contributions to these plans using assumptions with respect to these and other items. changes to those assumptions could have a significant effect on future contributions. there are additional risks due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments. examples include implementation of significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market liquidity in particular asset classes and the inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. factors that affect future funding requirements for our u.s. defined benefit plans generally affect the required funding for non-u.s. plans. certain plans outside the u.s. do not have assets and therefore the obligation is funded as benefits are paid. if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our non-u.s. plans, we could be required to contribute more funds. * * * * * * * quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the chief financial officer with support from the financial risk council, which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. the financial risk council comprises members of our management and functions under the oversight of the audit committee and finance committee of the board of directors. the audit committee and finance committee assist and guide the board of directors in its oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. a risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the financial risk council. our financial risk management policy is designed to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures. automotive the following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk. sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. the models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates and interest rate yield curves. for options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect of market shifts. there are certain shortcomings inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rates change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts 39 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency exposures and offsetting long-short positions in currency or other exposures, such as interest rates, which may significantly reduce the potential loss in value. foreign currency exchange rate risk we have foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the functional currencies of our operations. at december 31, 2019 our most significant foreign currency exposures were between the u.s. dollar and the canadian dollar, korean won, euro, brazilian real, australian dollar, mexican peso and chinese yuan. derivative instruments such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are primarily used to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. such contracts had remaining maturities of up to 12 months at december 31, 2019 . the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was $1.4 billion and $0.9 billion at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . these amounts are calculated utilizing a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and exclude the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other assets. the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would have been $0.2 billion and $0.1 billion at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . we are exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. we had foreign currency derivatives with notional amounts of $5.1 billion and $2.7 billion at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial condition. the following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement (gains) losses: years ended december 31, 2019 2018 translation losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 32 $ 353 transaction and remeasurement (gains) losses recorded in earnings $ (77 ) $ 156 interest rate risk we are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial instruments, primarily debt, finance lease obligations and certain marketable debt securities. we did not have any interest rate swap positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . the fair value liability of debt and finance leases was $15.9 billion and $13.5 billion at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . the potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would have been $0.6 billion and $0.8 billion at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . we had marketable debt securities of $4.2 billion and $6.0 billion classified as available-for-sale at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . the potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would have had an insignificant effect at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . equity price risk we are subject to equity price risk due to market price volatility related to our investment in lyft and psa warrants. the fair value of investments with exposure to equity price risk was $1.5 billion at december 31, 2019 . in march 2019 lyft filed for an initial public offering, which significantly increased the volatility in the fair value of our investment in lyft. our investment in lyft is valued based on the quoted market price, and our investment in psa warrants is valued based on a black-scholes formula. we estimate that a 10% adverse change in quoted security prices in lyft and psa group would impact our investments by $0.1 billion. automotive financing - gm financial interest rate risk fluctuations in market interest rates can affect gm financial's gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between interest earned on finance receivables and interest paid on debt. gm financial is exposed to interest rate risks as financial assets and liabilities have different characteristics that may impact financial performance. these differences may include tenor, yield, re-pricing timing, and prepayment expectations. typically retail finance receivables and leases purchased by gm financial earn fixed interest and commercial finance receivables originated by gm financial earn variable interest. gm financial funds its business with variable or fixed rate debt. the variable rate debt is subject to adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. to help mitigate interest rate risk or mismatched funding, gm financial may employ hedging. 40 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries quantitative disclosure gm financial measures the sensitivity of its net interest income to changes in interest rates by using interest rate scenarios that assume a hypothetical, instantaneous parallel shift of one hundred basis points in all interest rates across all maturities, as well as a base case that assumes that rates perform at the current market forward curve. however, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel and rates could move more or less than the one percentage point assumed in our analysis. therefore, the actual impact to net interest income could be higher or lower than the results detailed in the table below. these interest rate scenarios are purely hypothetical and do not represent our view of future interest rate movements. at december 31, 2019, gm financial was liability-sensitive, meaning that more liabilities than assets were expected to re-price within the next twelve months. during a period of rising interest rates, the interest paid on liabilities would increase more than the interest earned on assets, which would initially decrease net interest income. during a period of falling interest rates, net interest income would be expected to initially increase. at december 31, 2018, gm financial was asset-sensitive, meaning that more assets than liabilities were expected to re-price within the next twelve months. during a period of rising interest rates, the interest earned on assets would increase more than the interest paid on debt, which would initially increase net interest income. during a period of falling interest rates, net interest income would be expected to initially decrease. gm financial's net interest income sensitivity continued to decrease in 2019 from 2018 primarily due to gm financial's strategy of hedging fixed-rate asset originations with pay-fixed interest rate swaps. the following table presents gm financial's net interest income sensitivity to interest rate movement: years ended december 31, 2019 2018 one hundred basis points instantaneous increase in interest rates $ (4.6 ) $ 10.7 one hundred basis points instantaneous decrease in interest rates(a) $ 4.6 $ (10.7 ) __________ (a) net interest income sensitivity given a one hundred basis point decrease in interest rates requires an assumption of negative interest rates in markets where existing interest rates are below one percent. additional model assumptions the sensitivity analysis presented is gm financial's best estimate of the effect of the hypothetical interest rate scenarios; however, actual results could differ. the estimates are also based on assumptions including the amortization and prepayment of the finance receivable portfolio, originations of finance receivables and leases, refinancing of maturing debt, replacement of maturing derivatives and exercise of options embedded in debt and derivatives. the prepayment projections are based on historical experience. if interest rates or other factors change, actual prepayment experience could be different than projected. foreign currency exchange rate risk gm financial is exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation and remeasurement of the results of certain international operations into u.s. dollars as part of the consolidation process. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect gm financial's financial condition. gm financial primarily finances its receivables and leased assets with debt in the same currency. when a different currency is used gm financial may use foreign currency swaps to convert substantially all of its foreign currency debt obligations to the local currency of the receivables and lease assets to minimize any impact to earnings. gm financial had foreign currency swaps with notional amounts of $6.2 billion and $3.9 billion at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . the fair value of these derivative financial instruments was insignificant at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . the following table summarizes gm financial's foreign currency translation and transaction and remeasurement (gains) losses: years ended december 31, 2019 2018 translation (gains) losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (5 ) $ 291 transaction and remeasurement (gains) losses, net recorded in earnings $ (8 ) $ 12 * * * * * * * 41 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm to the shareholders and the board of directors of general motors company opinion on the financial statements we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and equity for the two years in the period ended december 31, 2019, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the financial statements ). in our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the company at december 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended december 31, 2019, in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) (pcaob), the company's internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2019, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (2013 framework) and our report dated february 5, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. adoption of accounting standards update (asu) no. 2014-09 as discussed in note 2 to the financial statements, the company changed its method of accounting for revenue from contracts with customers in 2018 due to the adoption of asu no. 2014-09, "revenue from contracts with customers," as amended. basis for opinion these financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's financial statements based on our audits. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. we believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. critical audit matters the critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. the communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. product warranty and recall campaigns description of the matter as discussed in note 12 to the financial statements, the liabilities for product warranty and recall campaigns amount to $7.8 billion at december 31, 2019. the company accrues for costs related to product warranty at the time of vehicle sale and accrues the estimated cost of recall campaigns when they are probable and estimable, which is generally at the time of sale. 42 table of contents auditing these liabilities is complex and involves a high degree of subjectivity in evaluating management's estimates, due to the size, uncertainties, and potential volatility related to the estimated liabilities. management's estimates consider historical claims experience, including the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims of each vehicle line or each model year of the vehicle line, and the key assumptions of historical data being predictive of future activity and events, in particular, the number of historical periods used and the weighing of historical data in the reserve studies. how we addressed the matter in our audit we evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of internal controls over the company's product warranty and recall campaign processes. we tested internal controls over management's review of the valuation models and significant assumptions for product warranty and recall including the warranty claims forecasted based on the frequency and average cost per warranty claim for product warranty, and the cost estimates related to recall campaigns. our audit also included the evaluation of controls that address the completeness and accuracy of the data utilized in the valuation models. our audit procedures related to product warranty and recall campaigns also included, among others, evaluating the company's estimation methodology, the related significant assumptions and underlying data, and performing analytical procedures to corroborate cost per vehicle based on historical claims data. furthermore, we performed sensitivity analyses to evaluate the significant judgments made by management, including cost estimates to evaluate the impact on reserves from changes in assumptions. we performed analysis over the vehicle lines and model years that had little or no claims experience to ensure the vehicle and model substitutions are comparable. we also involved actuarial specialists to evaluate the methodologies and assumptions, and to test the actuarial calculations used by the company. sales incentives description of the matter automotive sales and revenue represents the amount of consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or providing services, which is net of dealer and customer sales incentives the company expects to pay. as discussed in note 2 to the financial statements, provisions for dealer and customer incentives are recorded as a reduction to automotive net sales and revenue at the time of vehicle sale. the liabilities for dealer and customer allowances, claims and discounts amount to $10.4 billion at december 31, 2019. auditing the estimate of sales incentives involved a high degree of judgment. significant factors used by the company in estimating its liability for retail incentives include forecasted sales volumes, product mix, and the rate of customer acceptance of incentive programs, all of which are estimated based on historical experience and assumptions concerning future customer behavior and market conditions. the company's estimation model reflects the best estimate of the total incentive amount that the company reasonably expects to pay at the time of sale. the estimated cost of incentives is forward-looking, and could be materially affected by future economic and market conditions. how we addressed the matter in our audit we evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of internal controls over the company's sales incentive process, including management's review of the estimation model, the significant assumptions (e.g., incentive cost per unit, customer take rate, and market conditions), and the data inputs used in the model. our audit procedures included, among others, the performance of analytical procedures to develop an independent range of the liability for retail incentives as of the balance sheet date. our independent range was developed for comparison to the company's recorded accrual, and is based on historical claims, forecasted spend, and the specific vehicle mix of current dealer stock. in addition, we performed sensitivity analyses over the cost per unit assumption developed by management to evaluate the impact on the liability resulting from a change in the assumption. lastly, we assessed management's forecasting process by performing quarterly hindsight analyses to assess the adequacy of prior forecasts. 43 table of contents valuation of gm financial equipment on operating leases description of the matter gm financial has recorded investments in vehicles leased to retail customers under operating leases. as discussed in note 2 to the financial statements, at the beginning of the lease, management establishes an expected residual value for each vehicle at the end of the lease term. the company's estimated residual value of leased vehicles at the end of lease term was $30.4 billion as of december 31, 2019. auditing management's estimate of the residual value of leased vehicles involved a high degree of judgment. management's estimate is based, in part, on third-party data which considers inputs including recent auction values and significant assumptions regarding the expected future volume of leased vehicles that will be returned to the company, used car prices, manufacturer incentive programs and fuel prices. realization of the residual values is dependent on the future ability to market the vehicles under future prevailing market conditions. how we addressed the matter in our audit we obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of the company's controls over the lease residual estimation process, including controls over management's review of residual value estimates obtained from the company's third-party provider and other significant assumptions. our procedures also included, among others, independently recalculating depreciation related to equipment on operating lease and performing sensitivity analyses related to significant assumptions. we also performed hindsight analyses to assess the propriety of management's estimate of residual values, as well as tested the completeness and accuracy of data from underlying systems and data warehouses that are used in the estimation models. / / ernst &amp; young llp we have served as the company's auditor since 2017. detroit, michigan february 5, 2020 44 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm to the shareholders and the board of directors of general motors company opinion on internal control over financial reporting we have audited general motors company and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2019, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (2013 framework) (the coso criteria). in our opinion, general motors company and subsidiaries (the company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2019, based on the coso criteria. we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states) (pcaob), the consolidated balance sheets of the company as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and equity for the two years in the period ended december 31, 2019, and the related notes and our report dated february 5, 2020 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. basis for opinion the company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying management's report on internal control over financial reporting. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. we are a public accounting firm registered with the pcaob and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting a company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. a company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. / / ernst &amp; young llp detroit, michigan february 5, 2020 45 table of contents report of independent registered public accounting firm to the shareholders and the board of directors of general motors company: opinion on the financial statements we have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and equity of general motors company and subsidiaries (the "company") for the year ended december 31, 2017, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). in our opinion, the 2017 financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the results of the company's operations and its cash flows for the year ended december 31, 2017, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. basis for opinion these financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's financial statements based on our audit. we are a public accounting firm registered with the public company accounting oversight board (united states) (pcaob) and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the u.s. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the securities and exchange commission and the pcaob. we conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the pcaob. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. our audit included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. our audit also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. we believe that our audit provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. / / deloitte &amp; touche llp detroit, michigan february 6, 2018 (july 25, 2018 as to note 25, segment reporting ) we began serving as the company's auditor in 1918. in 2018 we became the predecessor auditor. 46 table of contents general motors company and subsidiaries